(CNN) - Decades after 11 people were killed and dozens of homes were destroyed in Philadelphia when police deployed a bomb, the city has issued its first official apology.Tensions between police and MOVE, a Black liberation group, had been brewing since the 1970s and culminated with the deadly bombing in West Philadelphia on May 13, 1985 after city officials decided to evict the group. Last week, the city council passed the resolution after the measure was introduced earlier in this year to coincide with the 35th anniversary.Councilwoman Jamie Gauthier, who sponsored the measure, said the pain caused by the bombing has contributed to the ongoing distrust between police and residents -- something that became evident when protests erupted after Walter Wallace Jr., a 27-year-old Black man, was killed by police last month. The apology comes just weeks after officials in Greensboro, North Carolina, formally apologized for the deaths of five people during an attack by Ku Klux Klan members and the American Nazi Party, and  Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey offered a formal apology to a survivor of the 1963 Birmingham church bombing.These public gestures have been long overdue in Philadelphia and other cities and while they are welcomed, it remains to be seen whether they will lead to restorative justice, said Niambi Carter, Howard University political science professor."I don't know that an apology is going to be enough to really address the emotional toll that those events took on those communities," said Carter whose research focuses on racial and ethnic politics in the US. A  step toward healing, but is it creating real change?MOVE emerged in the early 1970s and became known for holding demonstrations against war and police brutality. Tensions with the Philadelphia Police Department soon followed and escalated in 1978 to a gun battle in Powelton Village that left one police officer dead and nine of the group's members arrested and convicted.Some of the remaining members settled into a rowhouse in West Philadelphia, just six blocks from where Wallace was shot last month. They campaigned for the release of their jailed members, prompting neighbors to complain about the group's loudspeakers and appealing to authorities for help. City officials decided to evict the group and arrest some of them, leading to the May 13, 1985, shootout and bombing. Eleven people were killed and 61 homes were destroyed.Police fired 10,000 rounds of ammunition into the rowhouse on the 6200 block of Osage Avenue and then dropped military-grade explosives on the house, burning an entire city block to the ground. Although surviving MOVE members and displaced residents cannot get back lost time, Carter says, they should be included in the city's plans to build conditions that would not give rise to similar events happening again. A special commission appointed by then-Mayor W. Wilson Goode to investigate the bombing concluded that "dropping a bomb on an occupied row house was unconscionable."Earlier this year, Goode called for an apology from the city in The Guardian, saying "it would be helpful for the healing of all involved." Gauthier also hopes the city council's apology is a step toward toward healing."I know that it's symbolic, but I also hope that it can be the start of the real listening and conversation and relationship building that we need to happen in the city," she said."In order to evolve and progress towards a more equal and just society, we must confront, reflect upon and learn from heinous government actions of the past," says the  Philadelphia City Council resolution apologizing for the 1985 MOVE bombing.The resolution will also establish a formal day of remembrance on May 13 to observe the legacy of the explosion and the city government's actions that led to it.The apologies are meaningful, observers say, but they run the risk of becoming hollow words if they are not followed by further actions that prevent similar events from happening again.  "We still live in world where the conditions still exist for these type of atrocities to occur," said Hasan Kwame Jeffries, an associate professor of history at Ohio State University.Alabama governor apologizes for 1963 Birmingham church bombing Jeffries, whose work focuses on African American history and the Civil Rights Movement, says the pain and absence of justice has made it difficult for many Black people to deal with the impact of the Birmingham church bombing and other events while for White people it's more because they are "an indictment of the present."Earlier this year, Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey offered a formal apology to a survivor of the 1963 Birmingham bombing at the 16th Street Baptist Church, calling it "one of the darkest days in Alabama's history."Although three Klansmen were convicted of the bombing (though two of them were not prosecuted until the 2000s), the survivor, Sarah Collins Rudolph, said she was never offered payment for her experience, nor medical care or an official apology.Ivey's apology came two months after attorneys for Collins Rudolph wrote a letter to the governor in July, requesting a formal apology and restitution for the losses she suffered as a result of the bombing. Collins Rudolph, who was 12 at the time, was in the church basement on September 15, 1963 with four other Black girls between the ages of 11 and 14, when the attack occurred. Her sister was killed and she lost vision in one eye. Jeffries, who gave a TEDxOhioStateUniversity talk themed "Why we must confront the painful parts of US history" earlier this year, also points to the need for Americans to deal with the past and recognize how past acts of violence against Black people impact race relations today."The reluctance to deal with the past, particularly for White Americans, when we're dealing with these sort of racial atrocities is that it says as much about the people who live then as it does about the people who live now," he says. "When you begin to peel back the layers of history, you realize that it just wasn't one or two bad actors, it was a society that condoned and promoted this type of behavior."(CNN) - With Thanksgiving fast approaching and Christmas right around the corner, Pepsi unveiled a limited edition apple pie-flavored cola on Tuesday.There's just one catch: You can't buy this seasonal drop in stores -- and you've had to have had a notable failure in the kitchen.Pepsi announced it will be giving away 2 liter bottles of Pepsi Apple Pie to 1,500 winners of its #PepsiApplePieChallenge sweepstakes, which fans can enter to win by submitting a photo or video of a "baking fail.""Failing at baking -- especially this year --  is nothing to be ashamed of, and we're celebrating those amateur bakers that are truly trying their best during a unique holiday season." said Todd Kaplan, vice president of marketing at Pepsi, in the announcement. "With Pepsi Apple Pie, we're providing a refreshingly delicious twist on the traditional slice of apple pie, while making sure people have some fun and don't take themselves too seriously in the process."PepsiCo unveiled its first 2-liter bottle redesign in nearly 30 years on Monday, with the new packaging being 25% slimmer than the previous design. Bottles of Pepsi Apple Pie, which evokes hints of cinnamon and apple to mimic the taste of a slice of apple pie, will be in the new packaging.(CNN) - Weekdays at 6pm E.T., Anderson Cooper hosts a digital show streaming live around the world covering the stories that audiences care about most.Aviation expert talks about the future of space tourismCNN's Anderson Cooper and aviation expert Miles O'Brien talk about about the future of space tourism.Professional rock climber on how he practices mindfulness while free soloingAlex Honnold, who scaled El Capitan in National Geographic's "Free Solo," discusses how he stays active during the pandemic with CNN's Anderson Cooper.Nurse sends family message in final momentsSergio Hernandez sent a final video message to his family hours before dying from coronavirus. Hernandez's cousin Adalberto Hernandez joins Anderson Cooper to talk about his life.Dr. Gupta answers your questions on Covid-19 and vaccines CNN's Dr. Sanjay Gupta joins Anderson Cooper to answer viewer questions about Covid-19. Cooper shares advice Alex Trebek gave him to win 'Jeopardy!'CNN's Anderson Cooper speaks with his "Celebrity Jeopardy!" rival Cheech Marin about the passing of Alex Trebek.(CNN) - If you've been dreaming about going back to the office, news of a promising Covid-19 vaccine could mean you'll be back at your desk sooner than you thought. There are obvious benefits to having a workforce that's been immunized from coronavirus, but can your employer require you to get vaccinated? Some workers might be hesitant about getting a vaccine or feel uncomfortable about their employer having a say in their medical decisions.  But legal experts say that employers can mandate getting the shot. Whether they should is a different matter. Some jobs already have vaccination requirements. For instance, some health care workers are required to get flu shots. "This idea that vaccines can be mandated is well-established," said Jay Rosenlieb, partner and chair of the Labor and Employment Group at Klein DeNatale Goldner law firm in California. Once a Covid vaccine becomes available, experts think some employers are likely to require workers to get it. "I fully expect there will be employers that choose to make it mandatory," said David Barron, an employment attorney at Cozen O'Connor. But federal protections could allow for some exceptions. Workers with underlying medical conditions might be exempt under the Americans with Disabilities Act. And Title VII of the Civil Rights Act could allow employees with "sincerely held" religious beliefs against a vaccine to seek accommodations.Under these circumstances, employers would have to provide reasonable accommodation. That could mean allowing the employee to work from home, or to use personal protective equipment in the office along with other health and safety measures, according to Rosenlieb. Not wanting to get the vaccine for moral or political reasons would not be protected.But making vaccination mandatory could open an employer up to potential workers' compensation claims if an employee suffers any negative side effects. And that could cause some companies to stop short of making it a condition of employment."If an employee has an adverse reaction to a mandated vaccination, that could become a workers' comp claim at least," said Rosenlieb.Forcing employees to get the vaccine could also create a PR headache for the company."Employees love to discuss political issues, and a vaccine mandate is going to spur on that discussion," noted Rosenlieb. That talk could leak outside company walls and onto social media. "The employer then becomes exposed to social media conversations that they otherwise would not want to be exposed to." Instead of a mandate, employers could try to encourage and motivate employees to get vaccinated."I don't think anybody wants to mandate it. They just don't want the bad vibes that come from a mandated program," said Rosenlieb.He suggested employers take a multi-pronged approach: allow workers to get the vaccine on company time, have senior leadership promote that they got the vaccine, and engage the union to promote the shot. He also said that workers who do not get the vaccine should not be discriminated against.Washington  (CNN) - Congresswoman-elect Cori Bush said Monday evening she was stunned and "hurt" when some Republicans addressed her as "Breonna" during new member orientation at the Capitol because she was wearing a mask with Breonna Taylor's name on it."It did not seem like they were being malicious. They just did not know," Bush told CNN's Erin Burnett on "OutFront." "But then after the next, and next, and the next, then I really started to feel hurt, because I'm like this has been a national movement ... the reports are between 15 and 26 million people protested up to July -- from June to July. How do you not know? And we claim ourselves -- we asked, we signed up -- to be leaders," she continued. A nurse and pastor turned progressive community leader, Bush will be Missouri's first Black woman to represent the state in Congress after winning her House seat, according to CNN's projection."We have to know what is happening in our communities. Not only our communities, but what's happening in other communities, because that is how we keep our people safe."Taylor, a 26-year-old Kentucky EMT, was shot at least eight times by police after law enforcement officials broke down the door of her apartment in an attempted drug raid in March. Her death prompted the kind of soul searching about the role of police in society and systemic racism in the criminal justice system that many advocates have been urging for decades.Before new member orientation, Bush had tweeted a photo of herself wearing the mask with Taylor's name on it outside the Capitol with the caption: "Change does not come from this place unless we bring it here ourselves.""We're bringing change to the 117th Congress," she said.Bush expanded on that message Monday, telling Burnett that she explained to each GOP lawmaker that addressed her as "Breonna" who Taylor actually was. "It gave me an opportunity to teach, and so now they know who Breonna Taylor is," Bush said. "Hopefully they went to go research her and we can further this conversation."Bush celebrated her historic election earlier this month."This is definitely a night to remember," she said in an election night address. "As the first Black woman and also the first nurse and single mother to have the honor to represent Missouri in the United States Congress, let me say this: To the Black women, the Black girls, the nurses, the essential workers, the single mothers, this is our moment."Washinton  (CNN) - Republican Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa was exposed to Covid-19 and will immediately quarantine, according to a statement from his office Tuesday morning.Grassley, who as president pro tempore is the most senior Republican in the chamber, is 87-years-old, putting him at a vulnerable age for contracting the virus.If Grassley misses Tuesday's votes because he's isolating, he will miss his first vote since 1993 when he missed due to floods in his state, according to his office."I learned today that I've been exposed to the coronavirus," he said in a statement from his office. "I will follow my doctors' orders and immediately quarantine as I await my test results. I'm feeling well and not currently experiencing any symptoms, but it's important we all follow public health guidelines to keep each other healthy."Grassley is the second GOP senator in under a week to announce that he's isolating after a possible Covid exposure. Republican Sen. Rick Scott of Florida said Saturday that he was isolating as well after coming into "contact with someone who subsequently tested positive for COVID."Grassley was seen at the Capitol speaking to reporters Monday afternoon.At least two members of the US House of Representatives announced Monday they tested positive for Covid-19 and another member announced he was isolating after possibly being exposed, a sign of the looming threat of coronavirus on Capitol Hill.The threat of coronavirus has been a consistent influence over leaders from both parties and chambers of Congress since the pandemic began, and how lawmakers react has been under increased scrutiny amid the latest wave of cases sweeping the country.Grassley's announcement also comes a day after a dispute on the Senate floor when Ohio Democratic Sen. Sherrod Brown was recognized by Alaskan GOP Sen. Dan Sullivan and asked Sullivan to put on a face mask."I'd start by asking the presiding officer to please wear a mask as he speaks and people below him are — I can't tell you what to do," Brown said, referring to Sullivan."I don't wear a mask when I'm speaking, like most senators," Sullivan responded.Brown responded angrily: "I know you don't need my instruction, but there clearly isn't much interest in this body in public health. We have a president who hasn't shown up at the coronavirus task force meeting in months. We have a majority leader that calls us back here to vote on an unqualified nominee, and at the same time to vote for judge after judge after judge, exposing all the people who can't say anything, I understand, the people in front of you, and the presiding officer, and expose all the staff here, and the Majority Leader just doesn't seem to care."This story has been updated with additional developments Tuesday.New York  (CNN Business) - Shoppers are once again loading up on paper goods and cleaning supplies in areas of the United States hard hit by rising coronavirus infections, leading to empty shelves at some Walmart stores.Officials at Walmart, the largest retailer in the country, said Tuesday that supply chains have not kept up with rising demand, and these goods have been harder to stock consistently in locations with sharp spikes in new virus cases. The United States has recorded more than 100,000 daily infections for two weeks straight, and on Monday reported more than 166,000 new cases."We do see big differences, depending on the communities that you're in," Walmart US CEO John Furner said on a call with analysts Tuesday after Walmart reported its quarterly earnings. "The specific categories where we have the most strain at the present time would be bath tissue and cleaning supplies."Walmart CEO Doug McMillon called it "disappointing" to see "as many out-of-stocks as we have in consumables right now generally," although he said the situation had improved since the spring. He stressed that Walmart was better prepared to handle the demand than it was earlier in the year."It feels to me like we'll work through this period of time better than we did in the first wave," McMillon said.Walmart has not implemented a storewide policy on purchase limits for customers. But store managers have the authority to "implement item limits based on their specific store experience to help sustain product availability," said Delia Garcia, spokesperson for Walmart, in an email.The retailer also recently resumed counting the number of customers inside its stores as a safety precaution.Several other leading grocery chains have reimposed limits on toilet paper, paper towels and disinfecting wipes, hoping to keep their shelves stocked.At Kroger, customers can purchase a maximum of two items when it comes to products like bath tissue, paper towels, disinfecting wipes and hand soap. Giant, a grocery chain in the Northeast, recently put a limit of one on purchases of larger toilet paper and paper towel sizes and four on smaller toilet paper and paper towel sizes. H-E-B in Texas has implemented similar policies in recent weeks. Some H-E-B stores have instituted limits of two on purchases of disinfecting and antibacterial sprays, while other stores have limited toilet paper and paper towels to two.Around 21% of paper products such as toilet paper and paper towels and 16% of household cleaning products were out of stock during the week ending November 15, according to data from market research firm IRI. Typically, around 5% of products are out of stock.Washington  (CNN) - Louisiana Rep. Cedric Richmond will join President-elect Joe Biden's White House, departing the New Orleans-area House of Representatives seat he has held since 2011. Richmond will serve as senior adviser to the President and director of the White House Office of Public Engagement. The 47-year-old former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus was a co-chair of Biden's presidential campaign and a close ally during the 2020 race. He is now set to become the highest-ranking Black aide to the President-elect.Richmond spoke about his new role Tuesday at the same time the transition team announced other top White House roles. The congressman said he would resign from his seat before January 20, the day of Biden's inauguration."And so this new role will allow me to offer advice to the President when he wants it, maybe sometimes when he doesn't want it," he said.A confidant, early supporter and loyal surrogate during the campaign, Richmond provides a direct line to House Democratic leadership, which has come under fire from its own caucus after an election that saw its majority thinned and set off recriminations between moderate members and outspoken progressives. Democrats have been anxious about the prospect of House members leaving to join the administration and potentially losing those seats to Republicans, but Richmond's district is deep blue and news of his departure has already set off a scramble among state Democrats eager to fill it.Calling it "one of the hardest decisions" of his life, Richmond said, "I am not leaving the people of Louisiana. I am not leaving the people of the second Congressional District. I am New Orleans through and through. I bleed black and gold."  CNN previously reported Richmond was thought to be under consideration for several roles in the West Wing.South Carolina Rep. James Clyburn, the influential congressman whose endorsement helped Biden win the South Carolina primary and revive his campaign, said last month he would like to see Biden pick Richmond for a Cabinet position. "If not in the Cabinet, certainly in the administration somewhere. I think Cedric has one of the best political minds that I've ever encountered. ...There are a lot of young people like that that need to be involved," Clyburn told Washington Post Live. Richmond is currently the chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, and serves on the House Ways and Means Committee. He is a member of the New Democrat Coalition and serves as the House Democratic assistant to the majority whip. Biden is expected to announce who will serve in top roles in his administration in the coming days and weeks. His first personnel decision was to tap Ron Klain to be his incoming chief of staff last week. The Biden campaign announced several other White House senior staff members on Tuesday, including: Mike Donilon, chief strategist for the Biden campaign; Steve Ricchetti, chairman of the Biden campaign; Jen O'Malley Dillon, Biden's presidential campaign manager; Dana Remus, general counsel to the Biden campaign; Julie Rodriguez, deputy campaign manager on the Biden campaign; and Annie Tomasini, Biden's traveling chief of staff. Members of soon-to-be first lady Jill Biden's office were also announced.This story has been updated with the official announcement on Tuesday. (CNN) - President Donald Trump lost the presidential election 10 days ago. Since then, he's done next to nothing -- at least publicly -- to suggest he plans to continue doing the job in any serious manner through January 20.Trump has no public events on his schedule Tuesday, the 10th time since the election that's been the case, according to CNN's Kevin Liptak. And, as CNN's Kaitlan Collins pointed out, it's been two weeks since the President last took any questions from the reporters who cover him.What has Trump filled his days with, you ask? Well here's what we know:1. Golf: Trump played golf at his club in Virginia twice this past weekend, which makes 283 days spent at a golf course during his presidency, according to CBS News' Mark Knoller. Trump was also on the golf course the previous weekend, when Joe Biden was declared the winner of the 2020 race by CNN and other media outlets.2. Tweeting: Trump has used his Twitter feed to push any number of disproven or entirely fact-free conspiracy theories about the election. (I won't repeat them here.) While Trump was always an avid and active Twitter user, the pace of his tweets and retweets have picked up considerably post-election -- as have the number of his tweets that are flagged by Twitter for being inaccurate.3. Controversial military decisions: On Monday, the Pentagon signaled that Trump was planning to draw down American troops in both Afghanistan and Iraq. (That decision goes directly against the advice of the military chain of command.) And according to The New York Times, Trump asked his top advisers for options to strike at Iran's nuclear capabilities before he leaves office.4. Firing people: Trump removed Secretary of Defense Mark Esper shortly after the election and has, since that time, carried out a series of removals at of civilian staff at the Defense department. He is also rumored to be weighing the possibility of firing CIA Director Gina Haspel and has openly speculated about removing FBI Director Christopher Wray.And well, that's about it.So, since losing the election, Trump has effectively given up doing any parts of the job that require either consultation with people outside of his inner circle or interaction with anyone who won't affirm his fantasy that he is actually not only winning the election but will eventually claim a second term.  One prime example: Talks with congressional leaders to arrive at a coronavirus stimulus deal, which were active in the run-up to the election, have gone dormant -- with no signs they will begin again despite the clear need for more money to be pumped into the economy in order to withstand the ongoing effects of Covid-19 on the country.What's striking about Trump's I'm-taking-my-ball-and-going-home approach since losing his bid for a second term is that he continues to fight like hell -- publicly at least -- to hold onto a job that he has shown zero interest in actually doing over the past two weeks.Why the disconnect? My educated guess is that Trump hates the idea of losing or being termed a loser more than anything. And so, even if he doesn't really like doing most of the job that the American public fired him from, he will fight like hell to keep the stink of losing off of him. Trump may not really want to do the whole "being president" thing anymore but his seeming lack of interest in the job is trumped, ahem, by his desire to continue what in his mind is a lifetime winning streak.So Trump will keep fighting. And even after he leaves office, he may well float the idea of running again in 2024. Or even do it! But what these past two weeks have proven is that Trump cares about the winning (and the losing) much more than the job itself. He likes being president. Just not the stuff you have to do to, you know, be the president.(CNN) - A week ago almost no one outside of Georgia had ever heard the name Brad Raffensperger. Today? He's the most hated man in Republican politics.Raffensperger is the secretary of state in Georgia, and as such, is in charge of the state's election. Which means that he is the lightning rod for President Donald Trump's ire about losing the state and ongoing pressure campaign to find a way to make sure that the full manual recount, which Raffensperger ordered last week, overturns the current result."Georgia Secretary of State, a so-called Republican (RINO), won't let the people checking the ballots see the signatures for fraud," tweeted Trump on Friday. "Why? Without this the whole process is very unfair and close to meaningless. Everyone knows that we won the state. Where is @BrianKempGA?" (Trump has sent seven subsequent tweets attacking the Georgia recount process since that Friday tweet.)Georgia Republican Sens. David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler called on Raffensperger to resign last week -- although they failed to mention exactly what he had done wrong. "Georgians are outraged, and rightly so. We have been clear from the beginning: every legal vote cast should be counted. Any illegal vote must not. And there must be transparency and uniformity in the counting process," the two said in a joint statement.And, as Raffenspgerger recounted to CNN's Wolf Blitzer on Monday, he was on the receiving end of a call from Republican South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham that he perceived as pressuring him to disqualify ballots."He asked if the ballots could be matched back to the voters," Raffensperger said of Graham. "And then he, I got the sense it implied that then you could throw those out for any, if you look at the counties with the highest frequent error of signatures. So that's the impression that I got."(Sidebar: This is completely and totally outrageous on Graham's part -- especially given his role as the  chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. It is in keeping, however, with his dogged willingness to win the award as Trump's most loyal sycophant. For what it's worth, Graham denied Raffenperger's allegation, calling it "ridiculous.")That Raffensperger has somehow become the public face of Trumpworld's discontent with the outcome of the presidential election is, well, odd. Prior to running to be secretary of state in 2018, he served as a state representative from a suburban Atlanta seat. He won his current job in a December 2018 runoff against former Rep. John Barrow.In advance of that runoff victory, Raffensperger won the endorsement of -- wait for it -- President Donald Trump. "Brad Raffensperger will be a fantastic Secretary of State for Georgia - will work closely with @BrianKempGA," tweeted the President on November 26, 2018. "It is really important that you get out and vote for Brad - early voting starts today, election is on December 4th. @VoteBradRaff is tough on Crime and Borders, Loves our Military and Vets. He will be great for jobs!"The runoff (and the job) had drawn national attention even before Trump's endorsement because the man Raffensperger was running to replace, Brian Kemp, had just been elected governor by a very narrow margin over Democrat Stacey Abrams. Democrats cried foul that the chief election officer was also the GOP candidate for governor but Kemp refused to step down during the campaign. Those complaints grew louder amid the very close result -- Kemp won by fewer than 55,000 votes -- and Abrams refused to concede the race.Raffensperger, despite the controversy, cast himself as a candidate who would follow in Kemp's footsteps particularly in regard to the state's strict voter ID law. "I'm going to make sure that elections are clean, fair and accurate," he said in his victory speech. "And that's the No. 1 priority as your next secretary of state."Raffensperger could not have imagined then that less than two years after that win, he would be under fire from Republican not Democrats over his conduct in the 2020 election. But such is the irrational hold that Trump still exerts over the GOP. No one in the party really knows what they think Raffensperger did wrong. But they know Trump is mad, so they are mad too.For his part, Raffensperger isn't taking these intra-party attacks lying down. In response to the calls of Loeffler and Perdue for him to resign, he shot back: "Let me start by saying that is not going to happen. The voters of Georgia hired me, and the voters will be the one to fire me." He also posted a series of debunkings of Trump's claims about voter fraud in the state on his Facebook page over the weekend.In his interview on CNN Monday night, Raffensperger reflected on what it has meant to see his own party turn against him."You always think I'm on this side of the aisle obviously and you always think your side wears the white hats," he told Blitzer. "But people are really upset about this. And at the end of the day, I understand how contentious it is. We're going to follow the process, we follow the law. The results will be what they are."(CNN) - President Donald Trump last week asked senior aides what possibilities he had for an offensive strike on Iran's primary nuclear site, The New York Times reported Monday.Citing four current and former US officials, the paper reported that the meeting occurred in the Oval Office on Thursday. A day before, the International Atomic Energy Agency issued a report obtained by the Times stating that Iran's stockpiles of uranium had reached 12 times the 300-kilogram limit set in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, the landmark nuclear deal Iran signed with the United States and five other nations in 2015. Trump took the US out of the deal in 2018.CNN has reached out to the agency for a copy of the report.Trump asked his highest-ranking national security advisers what possible responses were available to him and how best to respond to Iran, officials told the Times.Vice President Mike Pence, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley were among the senior advisers who convinced the President not to pursue a military strike, according to the paper. They cautioned that such an attack could easily balloon into a full-fledged confrontation in his final days as president, the Times reported.Administration officials with knowledge of the meeting told the paper that after Pompeo and Milley hammered home the threat of the attack mushrooming into a larger conflict, officials departed the meeting thinking that the possibility of a missile attack on Iranian soil was no longer in question.But officials told the paper that Trump could be continuing to eye plans to attack Iranian allies and assets, such as militias in Iraq.Trump withdrew from the Iran deal and re-introduced economic sanctions in 2018. Iran announced a partial withdrawal from the deal in May 2019, and that July the Iranian government announced that Tehran had begun to increase uranium enrichment beyond the purity threshold it agreed to as part of a landmark nuclear deal.(CNN) - President-elect Joe Biden is building out the staff that will surround him in the White House, announcing Tuesday that he is tapping two long-time advisers for top roles and naming several other veterans of his presidential campaign to senior positions. Among Tuesday's announced hires: Mike Donilon, the chief strategist for Biden's campaign who played a leading role in crafting his speeches and advertising as he framed the 2020 race as a "battle for the soul of the nation," will be a senior adviser to the president. And Steve Ricchetti, the Biden campaign chairman and a veteran of the Barack Obama and Bill Clinton White Houses, will be a counselor to the president. The announcements come days after Biden tapped veteran Democratic operative Ron Klain as his chief of staff, and show that Biden is first filling out the staff that will surround him in the White House before moving on to Cabinet announcements. News of at least two of the appointments had already broken Monday: Jen O'Malley Dillon, the campaign manager who took over after Biden limped through the Democratic primary and turned his campaign into the biggest fundraising juggernaut in history, is Biden's deputy chief of staff. And Louisiana Rep. Cedric Richmond, the former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, is resigning from his House seat to become a senior adviser to Biden and the director of the White House Office of Public Engagement. Julie Chavez Rodriguez, a Biden deputy campaign manager who had previously been a top aide to Vice President-elect Kamala Harris' presidential campaign during the primary, will be director of the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. Chavez Rodriguez is also a veteran of former President Barack Obama's administration, where she was a special assistant to the president and senior deputy director of public engagement. Dana Remus, the Biden campaign's general counsel and once a clerk for Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito and was general counsel to the Obama Foundation and the Obamas' personal office, has the title of counsel to the president. Annie Tomasini, who was Biden's traveling chief of staff during the campaign, will be director of Oval Office Operations, a gatekeeping role that again puts her close to the President-elect."President-elect Biden and Vice President-elect Harris have an ambitious and urgent agenda for action. The team we have already started to assemble will enable us to meet the challenges facing our country on day one," Klain said in a statement announcing the hires Tuesday morning. Biden's transition team announced several of Jill Biden's top staffers, as well. Julissa Reynoso Pantaleon, a former US ambassador to Uruguay and deputy assistant secretary of state who is now a partner at the law firm of Winston & Strawn, will be Biden's chief of staff. Anthony Bernal, who was the soon-to-be first lady's chief of staff during the 2020 campaign, will be a senior adviser.  For long stretches of the 2020 campaign, Tomasini and Bernal were the only Biden aides regularly meeting with the candidate and his wife. Biden largely campaigned from home for months, with states locked down and travel restricted during the coronavirus pandemic, as campaign staffers worked remotely. Tomasini and Bernal were the only staffers regularly entering and leaving their home in Delaware. (CNN) - Republican Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas on Monday called Sen. Sherrod Brown "a complete ass" following a tense dispute over mask wearing on the Senate floor between the Ohio Democrat and Alaska Republican Sen. Dan Sullivan.The dispute, captured in a video clip that has now gone viral, took place when Brown asked Sullivan to wear a mask while speaking as he presided over the Senate, a request that Sullivan refused to comply with.Brown, who wore a mask as he spoke, said, "I'd start by asking the presiding officer to please wear a mask as he speaks." Sullivan, who was not wearing a mask, responded tersely, "I don't wear a mask when I'm speaking, like most senators, I don't need your instruction."Cruz criticized Brown over the incident in a tweet on Monday, writing, "This is idiotic. @SherrodBrown is being a complete ass. He wears a mask to speak—when nobody is remotely near him—as an ostentatious sign of fake virtue."  The Texas Republican went on to say that Sullivan was "over 50 feet away" from his fellow senator, adding "last I checked 50 feet is more than 6 feet." However, Cruz's tweet was misleading, as Brown seemed to be referring to the staffers who were just a few feet away from Sullivan while he was maskless. The series of events marks the latest flare-up on Capitol Hill over mask wearing and comes amid a deadly nationwide surge in coronavirus cases. A number of members of Congress have either tested positive or gone into quarantine following Covid-19 exposure in recent days. The office of Republican Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa announced Tuesday morning that he was exposed to Covid-19 and will immediately quarantine as a result. Grassley, who as president pro tempore is the most senior Republican in the chamber, is 87 years old, putting him at a vulnerable age for contracting the virus. The Iowa Republican spoke on the Senate floor on Monday and was seen at the Capitol speaking to reporters Monday afternoon.Brown tweeted after the incident Monday, "I asked my Republican colleagues to stop endangering all the Senate workers - and simply wear a mask when presiding over the Senate."In his comments directed at Sullivan on the Senate floor, the Ohio Democrat pointed out that there are "people below him," as he speaks. He went on to say, "there clearly isn't much interest in this body in public health." Since the pandemic has begun, there have been many occasions during which senators do not appear to be adequately socially distant on the Senate floor, especially during votes. A CNN review of hours of footage from September 29 through October 1 showed senators often crowding one another -- face-to-face and shoulder-to-shoulder -- and carrying on extended conversations in the chamber.(CNN) - If you think a negative test result means you don't have coronavirus, you could be wrong.It can take days before a new infection shows up on a Covid-19 test. "We know that the incubation period for Covid-19 is up to 14 days. And before that, you can be testing negative, and have no symptoms," emergency medicine physician Dr. Leana Wen said. "But you could actually be harboring the virus and be able to transmit it to others."So if you want to get tested before seeing friends or family, here's what you need to know:If I got infected yesterday, would a test today pick that up?Probably not. A study in the medical journal Annals of Internal Medicine examined false-negative test results of people who actually had Covid-19. The study estimated that during four days of infection before symptoms typically started, the probability of getting an incorrect/negative test result on Day 1 was 100%. On the day people started showing symptoms, the average false-negative rate had dropped to 38%, according to the study. Three days after symptoms started, the false-negative rate dropped to 20%."The virus just takes time to replicate in the body to detectable levels," said Justin Lessler, a senior author of the study and associate professor of epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health."You can get infected by just a few viral particles, but these will not be detectable until they have time to replicate to adequate levels to be detected," he told CNN by email. So how many days should a person wait after possible exposure to get tested? "There is no hard and fast rule, but the evidence suggests getting a test before the third day after exposure is not of much use," Lessler said.Could I be contagious while testing negative?Absolutely. "People sort of feel like if you test (negative), you're out of the woods. And you're kind of not," said Dr. Rochelle Walensky, chief of the infectious diseases division at Massachusetts General Hospital.For people who get sick with Covid-19, symptoms can take up to two weeks to appear, but the average time is about five days, Walensky said. "It's generally thought that you're most infectious the two days before that day and the two days after that," she said.  One reason why this virus spreads so easily is because people can be infectious without any symptoms. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates 40% of infections are asymptomatic, and 50% of transmissions happen before symptoms begin."It's been among the biggest Achilles' heels of this. And it's been among the biggest challenges and the unexpected things because (with) its cousins, this is not true," Walensky said. "The reason we were able to control the SARS outbreak so quickly -- although there were obviously a lot of deaths there -- but it didn't turn into a pandemic is because people weren't shedding (the virus) until they got symptoms." Do different Covid-19 tests matter? There are two main types of diagnostic tests that try to detect whether you have an active coronavirus infection:Molecular tests, such as PCR tests, look for the virus' genetic material. Most of these tests are performed with nasal swabs or throat swabs, though some can be done using saliva, the US Food and Drug Administration says."This test is typically highly accurate and usually does not need to be repeated," the FDA says.But the downside to molecular testing is that results can take a while -- anywhere from the same day to one week after testing. "For people who show symptoms, so far the studies show the accuracy of the molecular test to find a positive case increases with each day after the exposure," said Pia MacDonald, infectious disease epidemiologist at the nonprofit research institute RTI International.But for infected people who don't get symptoms, the accuracy rates are less clear, she said. "Molecular test performance studies on asymptomatic people are very limited."Antigen tests are often known as rapid tests (though some molecular tests are rapid, too). Antigen tests are not antibody tests, which tell you whether you've previously had the virus and have already developed antibodies against the infection.Antigen tests don't look for the virus' genetic material, like molecular tests do. Instead, they look for specific proteins on the surface of the virus. The good news is you can get antigen test results in less than an hour. The bad news is you're more likely to get a false negative with a rapid antigen test. "Positive results are usually highly accurate but negative results may need to be confirmed with a molecular test," the FDA says."Antigen tests are more likely to miss an active coronavirus infection compared to molecular tests."This could help explain some of the recent spread of Covid-19 linked to the White House.While staff members close to President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence are frequently tested, White House staffers often use rapid antigen tests, which generally have a higher rate of false negatives than molecular tests do. Regardless of which type of diagnostic test you use, you're generally more likely to get a false negative than a false positive. "If a molecular test is positive, it's an accurate reflection of a person being infected," MacDonald said."If it's negative, it's less reliable that the person is indeed negative. The same is true of the antigen tests." Can I test myself at home? Yes. There are some at-home testing kits available, such at the Everlywell Covid-19 molecular test. Users take their own nasal swab samples and mail them to a lab, which will send results digitally within 24 to 48 hours of receiving the samples. But taking any kind of Covid-19 test too early might miss an infection, said Dr. Frank Ong, chief medical and scientific officer at Everlywell."As testing capacity has continued to increase, more and more asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic individuals have undergone testing, most of whom likely have lower viral loads in their clinical samples," he said. So what should I do if I want to see friends or relatives?If you insist on seeing anyone who doesn't live with you, self-quarantining for 14 days beforehand is best, Walensky said.  "If you do that properly, you don't need a test," she said. "That's probably the cleanest way to do it."To be clear: Quarantining means staying home. It does not mean you can run errands. "'Grocery store' and 'quarantine' don't belong in the same sentence," Walensky said. Lessler agreed that quarantining is best, and any testing must be done intelligently. "If you are visiting an elderly family member and have a reasonable risk of having been exposed, there is no substitute for 14 days of quarantine," Lessler said."At the very least I would wait 10 days (of quarantining) and have a negative test," he said. "If you are visiting a younger, healthy family member and have little chance of being exposed before or during travel, then 5 or 7 days (of quarantine) plus a negative test is probably plenty of risk reduction, though no guarantee of safety."What should I do after testing negative?It's important to strictly quarantine not just before your Covid-19 test, but after your test as well."You should definitely remain in quarantine while awaiting test results and make sure everyone you are getting together with is on the same page about the plan for controlling infection risk," Lessler said.There have already been cases of coronavirus spread within families just days after a person tested negative, said Dr. Michael St. Louis, a member of the CDC's Community Guidance Team.He said everyone must remember to treat family from different households the same way you would treat unrelated friends or work colleagues during this pandemic.What's the safest way to celebrate Thanksgiving?The best way to help make sure everyone stays healthy is to celebrate the holidays remotely. "I have three kids. ... And my parents are not going to be joining us this year," Walensky said. "It's just awful. But what I really hold out for is that my parents are pretty healthy, and I would never forgive myself if I put them in harm's way. And I'm just looking forward to a 2021 when we can be together." The CDC suggests celebrating with loved ones virtually online. You can also make traditional Thanksgiving dishes and deliver them "in a way that doesn't involve contact" to relatives, neighbors or those who might be feeling lonely.Walensky said the small sacrifices made this Thanksgiving will help ensure everyone will be healthy enough to sit at the table next year. "At least they'll be there next year, whereas irresponsible behavior now might mean they won't be here later," she said."Let's do this so that we can have a much better shot of being around the table together, healthy, in 2021."(CNN) - Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger stood firm Monday on his account that Sen. Lindsey Graham had hinted that he should try to discard some ballots in Georgia, where a recount is underway after the state went for President-elect Joe Biden in the presidential election."He asked if the ballots could be matched back to the voters," Raffensperger told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on "The Situation Room" Monday evening. "And then he, I got the sense it implied that then you could throw those out for any, if you look at the counties with the highest frequent error of signatures. So that's the impression that I got."He later added, "It was just an implication of, 'Look hard and see how many ballots you could throw out.' "  Raffensperger's comments come after he told The Washington Post on Monday that Graham had cast doubt on Georgia's signature-matching law in a conversation on Friday, and had also floated the possibility that biased poll workers could have counted ballots with inconsistent signatures. Graham, a South Carolina Republican who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, also inquired if Raffensperger could discard all mail-in ballots from counties that had shown higher rates of unmatched signatures, the Republican secretary of state told the Post on Monday.There has been no evidence of widespread voter fraud in the 2020 election, and fraudulently altering a federal election vote tally is a federal crime.Graham denied Raffensperger's claim on Monday, telling CNN that he had said he wanted to understand the process for verifying the signatures on mail-in ballots. He said President Donald Trump did not urge him to make the call.Asked if he was trying to pressure the secretary of state to toss legal ballots, Graham said, "That's ridiculous.""What I'm trying to find out was how do you verify signatures on mail-in ballots in these states that are the center of attention? So like when you mail in a ballot, you got to have some way to verify that the signature on the envelope actually matches the person who requested the ballot," Graham said. "It seems to me that Georgia has some protections that maybe other states don't have, where you go into the portal to get your ballot. But I thought it was a good conversation. I'm surprised to hear him verify it that way."Graham added: "So they expanded mail-in voting, and how you verify the signatures to me is the big issue. If you're going to have mail-in voting, you've got to verify that the person who signed the envelope is also the person who requested the ballot."Raffensperger told Blitzer that Georgia's election systems already require signature matches when voters request mail ballots and when completed ballots are returned to election systems. He also said the online absentee portal has a photo ID. "We feel confident the election officials did their job," he said.  On Friday, CNN projected that Biden will win Georgia and its 16 electoral votes. Unofficial results put Biden ahead of Trump by about 14,000 votes, or about 0.3 percentage point. But due to the tight margin, state officials decided to use the preplanned audit process to recount every ballot in the presidential race. At least six small counties in Georgia have finished their presidential recounts without finding any discrepancies. A seventh county, Floyd, reported that 2,600 uncounted ballots had been found during their recount -- the ballots hadn't been scanned when the county tallied its early vote. An investigation is underway but human error has been deemed responsible.Experts say it would be nearly impossible for Trump to overcome his 14,000-vote deficit in a recount. The audit process is expected to conclude in the coming days, and Raffensperger reiterated Monday that he plans to certify the official results by Friday, as required by state law."We want to make sure this vote is very accurate. We understand the national importance of this, and we're in the process of doing it," he told Blitzer on Monday. "The counters will be done by the 18th and we will certify this by the 20th." The Republican spent part of his Sunday fact-checking Trump and pushing back against false claims of fraud in the presidential election and the hand recount ongoing in the state.  Raffensperger, among other things, defended the integrity of absentee ballots, signature verification, and the vote counting machines. He posted images of Trump's tweets that falsely claimed that mail-in voting "will lead to the most corrupt election in USA history" and result in "fraudulent ballots." Raffensperger responded that his team "secured and strengthened absentee ballots for the first time since 2005" by outlawing absentee ballot harvesting and also addressed the "disinformation about signature match," writing that "GBI trained elections officials match your signature twice before any vote is cast." He also posted links to news articles debunking Trump's tweets, including one alleging the Dominion voting software used in Georgia for the presidential election "deleted" and "switched" millions of votes. He also wrote, "Dominion voting system. America owned. America. 'Merica. Not Venezuela," in a reference to conspiracy theories spread by Trump's lawyer, Rudy Guiliani.Underscoring the contentious atmosphere between Raffensperger and fellow Republicans, he went after US Rep. Doug Collins, a Georgia Republican, in one post writing, "Failed candidate Doug Collins is a liar — but what's new?" Collins is leading the recount team for Trump in Georgia and has criticized Raffensperger's handling of the election.(CNN) - Over a million children under 18 have been diagnosed with Covid-19 in the United States since the start of the pandemic, the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Children's Hospital Association said Monday."As of Nov. 12, a total of 1,039,464 children have tested positive for Covid-19 since the onset of the pandemic. In the one-week period ending Nov. 12, there were 111,946 new cases in children, which is substantially larger than any previous week in the pandemic," the groups said in a joint statement."The increase tracks surges in the virus in communities across the U.S.," they added."As a pediatrician who has practiced medicine for over three decades, I find this number staggering and tragic," said Dr. Sally Goza, president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, which represents pediatricians. "We haven't seen a virus flash through our communities in this way since before we had vaccines for measles and polio."Because most children appear to have few or no symptoms, case counts in kids are thought to be widely underreported.Goza called for "a new, nationwide strategy to control the pandemic," which she said should include implementing "proven public health measures like mask wearing and physical distancing.""This pandemic is taking a heavy toll on children, families and communities, as well as on physicians and other front-line medical teams. We must work now to restore confidence in our public health and scientific agencies, create fiscal relief for families and pediatricians alike, and support the systems that support children and families such as our schools, mental health care, and nutrition assistance."      'Vaccine hesitant' parentsAt the same time, about one in five children in the US had a "vaccine hesitant" parent last year, according to new data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Parental concerns over vaccine safety have contributed to several major outbreaks of preventable diseases, including the 2019 measles outbreak in the US -- the largest number of cases in 27 years. It was largely driven by parents in Washington state and New York who failed to follow childhood vaccine guidelines.Outbreaks in the US of mumps and pertussis, also known as whooping cough, have also occurred in recent years due to a lack of basic childhood immunizations, according to the CDC, which notes that too few children get flu vaccines every year. Only about 63% of children under the age of 18 get vaccinated against flu, although the CDC says everyone over the age of 6 months should get a flu vaccine every year.Public health officials worry that vaccine hesitancy will reduce the willingness of parents to allow their children to be vaccinated against Covid-19 when a safe and effective vaccine becomes available. Studies have shown children of all ages are likely to contribute to the spread coronavirus, and the statistics released Monday indicated children make up a large number of US cases.While severe illness and death remains rare, the AAP and the Children's Hospital Association urged health authorities to do more to collect data on longer-term effects on the health of children. In recommendations for the incoming Biden-Harris administration released last week, the AAP advised that children be included in any Covid-19 vaccine trials.(CNN) - On a day his state and others reported staggering coronavirus numbers, one Midwestern governor said he could see through the darkness to better days ahead. But he acknowledged it will remain a difficult journey.Moderna hours before had announced its Covid-19 vaccine has an astonishingly high success rate -- 94.5% effective -- based on interim clinical trial data. It is the second company to report such high efficacy results."There is light at the end of the tunnel," Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz told reporters Monday of the vaccine news, a phrase echoed later in the day by Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases."But I want to be very clear. We need to get all our neighbors to the end of the tunnel," said Walz.That tunnel is going to be a long one.Most Americans probably won't get vaccinated until next year. And the fall surge continues to bring a terrifying jump in cases:  Nationwide, for two straight weeks, the US has added more than 100,000 new cases daily. And hospitalizations hit another new high.For the 11th day in a row, Illinois reported more than 10,000 cases in a single day, according to the state Department of Health website.Cases in California are up 51.3% in the past week and daily cases have doubled in just 10 days, Gov. Gavin Newsom said. About 70% of the counties in the state are moving back into more restrictive tiers as Newsom used the analogy of "pulling an emergency brake" to deal with the crisis.As vaccination trials continue, tens of thousands of lives could either be saved or lost, depending on how people act. Traditional Thanksgiving gatherings, for example, are a huge concern among health experts and state leaders."We simply can't do that right now," Walz said as his state reported 24,000 new cases in just three days.All of this comes as one expert says Covid-19 could become the leading daily cause of death in the US."It's more than just heading in the wrong direction," said Dr. Peter Hotez, dean of tropical medicine at the Baylor College of Medicine. "We are on the verge of a humanitarian catastrophe."California considers curfew to limit spreadLast week, California became the second state, behind Texas, to surpass 1 million infections.Residents got more grim news Monday when Newsom said 41 of the 58 counties, representing 94% of the population, will now fall under the most restrictive of the state's four-tier reopening system.In this tier, where infections are considered widespread, guests are welcomed only outdoors at restaurants, gyms and places of worship. The state's face covering mandate is being strengthened to require residents to wear a mask whenever they are outside of their homes, with few exceptions.Newsom said officials are considering a curfew, but details of such a possible action were not divulged. Los Angeles County officials are specifically considering a curfew "so businesses do not have to close again, but would instead have limited hours for essential activities," according to County Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas. Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti urged residents to stay at home as much as possible during the surge in cases. "Los Angeles is in a very dangerous situation," he said."If you don't have essential travel, don't travel," said Garcetti. "If you don't have to take a trip as an essential worker or because of a family emergency, don't travel."Why the 'war' against Covid-19 is getting worseMuch of the current surge is fueled by people hanging out with friends or family who don't live with them -- and wrongfully assuming they're not infected. US Surgeon General Jerome Adams said all Americans must mask up and double down on safety precautions, including social distancing, as the next few months are expected to be the worst of the pandemic. "Hard truths: 49/50 states with increasing cases, 34 in red or orange zones (ie significant rise)," Adams tweeted. Many hospitals are already running out of health care staff. Major surgeries for non-Covid patients are getting delayed. And some patients are several hours away from the closest available ICU bed. The winter surge of coronavirus cases could push some hospitals "to the breaking point," said Dr. Dara Kass, an emergency medicine physician at Columbia University Medical Center in New York.Kass said that some areas being hit hardest by the current surge are the least equipped to handle them."When you look at Utah, or Montana or the Dakotas, they just have such a fewer number of ICU beds and specialists, that when they get at capacity, it's going to be a breaking point for them in a way it wasn't for us in the coastal cities and states," Kass said at an online event hosted by Stat.Nationwide, more than 11 million people in the US have been infected with coronavirus, and more than 247,000 have died, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. If 95% of Americans wore masks consistently, 68,000 lives could be saved by March 1, according to the University of Washington's Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation. Still, disagreements remain over social distancing and gatherings.In Oregon, Democratic Gov. Kate Brown announced a two-week "social freeze," which includes limiting social gatherings, suspending indoor restaurant dining, and limiting the number of people who can gather for faith-based organizations. Social gatherings are limited to six people.Tootie Smith, who will start her term as chairwoman of the Clackamas Board of County Commissioners in January, said in a Facebook post that Brown's order is wrong and her family "will celebrate Thanksgiving with as many family and friends as I can find."Another Facebook post said Smith's constituents understand Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines and "can make their own informed decisions and maintain their personal rights."Brown on Monday did not address Smith's comment but said her household will keep its gathering small. "We want to make sure that we don't accidentally kill someone," Brown said.CNN has been unable to reach Smith for comment.The hospitalization record is shattered, againA record-high 73,014 Covid-19 patients were hospitalized Monday, according to the Covid Tracking Project. That's more than 3,000 above Sunday's tally.Both far exceed the spring peak of 59,940, on April 15, and the summer peak of 59,718 on July 23.Hospitalizations will likely keep rising as new infections keep soaring. And the increased case numbers aren't just due to more testing. About 1,000 people on average are dying every day, Fauci said Monday at an American Medical Informatics Association virtual symposium."This is really an extraordinarily difficult situation," he said, referring to the big surge of infections, "the likes of which we have not seen, including what was going on in the spring.""We are now, as we get deeper into the cooler weather of the fall and the upcoming winter weather that's cold, people are going to be doing more things indoors rather than outdoors, which means we really need to double down on the fundamental things that we do to prevent infection," he said.Bipartisan officials enact new restrictionsA growing number of Republican and Democratic governors and city leaders have issued new mandates to try to stop the crisis from getting worse. On Monday, Republican Gov. Mike DeWine of Ohio announced new limits on social gatherings, weddings and funerals."Despite the health order that limited mass gatherings to 10 people that was signed in April remaining in effect, we have seen rampant spread of the virus as a result of banquets, wedding receptions, and social gatherings following funerals," the governor said. The revised order prohibits dancing or socializing in open, congregate areas. Guests must be seated, and food should be served to them at their seats. No more than 10 people can sit at a table, and those people must be from the same household.  Philadelphia announced new outdoor restrictions. As a result, the Eagles will not be able to host fans at Lincoln Financial Field, the NFL team said in a tweet. The Archdiocese of Philadelphia Schools announced it will comply with the citywide measures and have all high schools do remote learning from November 23 through the end of the year.Starting Thursday, all bars and restaurants in Oklahoma must close by 11 p.m. and restaurant tables must be 6 feet apart. "We need to slow the spread of this virus," said Republican Gov. Kevin Stitt. "Data shows that social distancing is harder to maintain as it gets later at night, especially in bars."Beginning Tuesday, state employees must wear masks in common areas or when they are close to other workers, Stitt said.Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, a Democrat, has banned indoor social gatherings with people from different households, unless they take appropriate precautions. Those precautions include everyone quarantining for 14 days before the gathering, or quarantining for seven days before the gathering and getting a negative Covid-19 test result no more than 48 hours beforehand. 'This winter will be hard'Yes, there's great news with two vaccine trials -- one from Moderna, and one from Pfizer/BioNTech.But let's be clear: There will be no return to normal this year, BioNTech CEO Ugur Sahin said."This winter will be hard. We will not have a big impact on the infection numbers with our vaccine this winter," Sahin told the BBC.Last week, Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla said "we believe that we are in good situation to have up to 50 million doses this year, globally, and I believe we are in a very, very good situation to have 1.3 billion doses globally next year." But just like the Moderna vaccine, the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine requires two doses for each person. So if 50 million doses are available worldwide by the end of this year, that would mean 25 million people could get vaccinated. Moderna, Pfizer and other companies making vaccines must first ask for and then receive emergency use authorization from the US Food and Drug Administration before they can start distributing their vaccines.Fauci said the efficacy of the Moderna vaccine is more than he would have predicted. "For me, that was aspirational to get to that level. I would have been comfortable with a 70 to 75% effective vaccine," he said.Still, Fauci said, Americans should do risk assessments before holiday gatherings."The cavalry is coming, but the cavalry is not here yet," he said at the American Medical Informatics Association event.(CNN) - At just 4 years old, Raiden Gonzalez has lost both his parents. Coronavirus stole their lives four months apart, leaving Raiden with only a few years' worth of memories to cherish for a lifetime. With Raiden's birthday on Sunday, Margie Bryant -- the boy's great-aunt, whom he lovingly also calls grandma -- and her family wanted to find a way to make sure the boy knows how much he is loved, especially in the absence of his parents, she told CNN. A "wave and roar" dinosaur-themed drive-by parade is set for November 28, organized by Bryant, who lives in Houston. A local fire department, a Batman entertainer, monster truck clubs, motorcycle clubs and classic car clubs are all due to participate. "It's a milestone birthday," Bryant said. "We just want him (Raiden) to know that we're going to be there for all of his birthdays and make sure he's celebrated, and I know my niece has the cheesiest grin because she knows her boy is in good hands."Raiden lives in San Antonio, and his maternal grandmother, Rozie Salinas, has taken him in, Bryant said.Beyond Raiden's happiness, Bryant's wish is for others to take the coronavirus threat seriously. "I can't say it enough ... I know what it (coronavirus) has done to us, and I know the hurt that we feel, the void that it has left in our hearts, this little boy who doesn't have his mom and dad now," she said. "You hear about the deaths, but you don't ever really hear about the people left behind, and in this instance, it's a 4-year-old."Texas has reported the highest number of coronavirus cases of any state in the country, and the national death toll  is quickly approaching 250,000.Taking necessary precautionsRaiden's father, Adan Gonzalez Jr., 33, started a new job as a cement truck driver on May 12, Bryant said. His trainer tested positive for Covid-19, and by May 31, Adan began experiencing what he described to his family as allergy-like symptoms. On June 3, he tested positive for Covid-19, and six days later, paramedics took him to the ICU, where he spent a little over two weeks before passing away on June 26.Raiden's mother, Mariah Gonzalez, 29, broke the news of his father's passing, and though difficult, Raiden understood that Adan had been ill, Bryant said.Both Adan and Mariah, a toddler teacher at a day care center, had been taking necessary precautions at work by wearing face masks, Bryant said. After losing her husband, Mariah dealt with depression and anxiety, her aunt said. But her physical health seemed  fine. Then on Monday, October 5, Mariah spent the day shopping with her mother, ordered dinner and lived an otherwise normal day, Bryant said. In the evening, Mariah started experiencing shortness of breath and chest pains, so Bryant advised Salinas to call the paramedics, she said. "They came, did an EKG, did some other stuff, and they took her away and we never saw her again," Bryant said. "She passed at 8:14 on Tuesday morning." Hospital staff tested Mariah for coronavirus, Bryant said. The first test came back negative; a second test was positive, and within four hours of its result, Mariah had died of Covid-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory failure, Bryant said.'Angels in the clouds'Raiden will "tell you, 'Covid took my dad,'" Bryant said. "And it's sad to hear him say that, but he says, 'My dad is an angel in the sky, he's in the clouds,' and that is how he has recorded it in his mind whenever people ask him."While Raiden remembers his dad's every feature so well and talks about emulating his voice and wanting similar facial hair when he grows up, he's having a difficult time understanding and realizing that now, his mother has joined Adan as an "angel in the clouds," Bryant said.Bryant and her partner drove to San Antonio the day Mariah died. She was the one to tell Raiden about Mariah's passing -- one of the most devastating things she's had to do, she said."He's so smart. He has the most contagious laughter. It broke my heart to be the one to deliver this news to him about his mother, Mariah," she said. "I told him, 'The reason you haven't seen Mommy in the past couple of days is because Mommy got real sick, and Mommy is an angel in the sky now, too,' and he was just inconsolable," Bryant said. "He says to me, 'I want to be an angel in the clouds with my Mommy and Daddy.' But I said, 'No, we don't even want to talk about that, but know that they are everywhere, they are watching you.'"'The sky is the limit'The family will hold a funeral service for Adan and Mariah after the holidays, Bryant said. They have also set up a GoFundMe to cover those expenses and others to aid Salinas as Raiden's caregiver. "When young children experience the death of a loved one, not only do they mourn the loss, they are also concerned about who will take care of them," Robin Gurwitch, a psychologist and professor at Duke University Medical Center, told CNN. "It is important for family to assure the child that someone will always be there to take care of them."Not only is that reinforcement key but also an understanding that children will go through a wave of emotions and that it's important to give them the space to express and validate them, Gurwitch said.That's exactly what Bryant, Salinas and other relatives intend to do for Raiden, Bryant said."The sky is the limit," she said. "He's such a smart little boy, so I want him to reach his dreams, and we're going to be a part of it, and I've told my sister she is not alone, we are all here ... whether that's school or sports, whatever he wants, we're going to make sure that he has it and that he always remembers Mariah and Adan Jr." (CNN) - President Donald Trump continues to carry on with his unfounded charade claiming the election was wide-scale fraud. At the heart of many of his campaign's complaints is that the big cities in the Great Lakes (Rust Belt) battleground states, such as Detroit and Philadelphia, helped to "engineer" a certain outcome.  What Trump and his campaign don't seem to realize is that the cities (Detroit, Philadelphia and Milwaukee) in the three most important Great Lakes battlegrounds (Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin) were not responsible for President-elect Joe Biden's improvement compared with Hillary Clinton.  Biden won in large part because of a dramatic improvement in the suburbs surrounding the major cities in these states. See 2020 election resultsStart off in Michigan and Detroit. Biden actually got about 1,000 fewer votes than Clinton in Detroit. Trump, meanwhile, got nearly 5,000 more votes. Given Trump received so few votes in Detroit, this was good enough for a 65% increase for Trump. Then look at the counties surrounding Wayne County (where Detroit is located) as well as the places in Wayne outside of Detroit. Biden saw a 25% increase in his vote share, while Trump's vote share increased by just 15%. That alone was worth a net of more than 120,000 votes for Biden's margin over Trump compared with Clinton and 2016. Given that Trump beat Clinton by a little more than 10,000 votes in Michigan, this was more than enough to swing the state to Biden. Then there's Pennsylvania, where Trump's team has been going after Philadelphia's vote count and Republican City Commissioner Al Schmidt without any evidence. As in Detroit, Trump's been the one who has been disproportionately outperforming his 2016 Philadelphia performance. At this hour, Biden is doing fewer than 5,000 votes better than Clinton in 2016. Trump's doing more than 20,000 votes better than he did in 2016. That's about a 20% increase in his vote total in the city. The surrounding suburban counties have been much friendlier to Biden. His margin over Trump is about 80,000 votes more than Clinton's was in these same counties. The percentage increase for Biden in his vote total (21%) dwarfs Trump's (11%).Again, these 80,000 votes were more than enough to overcome Trump's 2016 statewide margin in Pennsylvania of about 45,000. Finally, in Wisconsin, Trump's problem wasn't Milwaukee. While Biden did pick up votes in the city of Milwaukee compared with Clinton, it was a rather small amount (about 6,000). Trump snagged an additional 3,000 or so votes. Trump's percentage increase (because he started at such a low baseline) in his vote total of 7% in the city of Milwaukee was actually double that of Biden's over Clinton's (3%). The suburban counties and Milwaukee County outside the city of Milwaukee are where Biden advanced the ball over Trump. Biden's percentage increase of the vote in these counties (25%) compared with Clinton more than doubled Trump's (12%). That's the opposite of what happened in the city of Milwaukee, where Trump's percentage vote increase was larger than the one on the Democratic side. In vote terms, Biden's margin in these suburbs improved by about 25,000 compared with Clinton's. As in Michigan and Pennsylvania, this alone would have wiped out Trump's 2016 statewide margin. He took Wisconsin by a touch under 23,000 in 2016. Biden's suburban triumph in the Great Lakes shouldn't come as too much of a surprise. Analysts like myself had been harping on preelection polling showing that Biden was doing unusually well for a Democrat in suburban areas. Trump didn't seem to realize that his law and order message was not playing in the suburbs the way he hoped it would. At the same time, the preelection polling had suggested Trump was doing well for a Republican among voters of color, who make up a disproportionate share of voters in the cities. The bottom line is that all these numbers make sense and tell a consistent story: Biden won because he was able to build on the traditional Democratic strength in the big cities by expanding his support into the suburban areas right outside of them. There wasn't any grand conspiracy by big city machines. Trump simply got beat because suburban voters were tired of him. (CNN) - The Moderna vaccine is 94.5% effective against coronavirus, according to early data released Monday by the company, making it the second vaccine in the United States to have a stunningly high success rate. "These are obviously very exciting results," said Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation's top infectious disease doctor. "It's just as good as it gets -- 94.5% is truly outstanding." Moderna heard its results on a call Sunday afternoon with members of the Data Safety and Monitoring Board, an independent panel analyzing Moderna's clinical trial data. "It was one of the greatest moments in my life and my career. It is absolutely amazing to be able to develop this vaccine and see the ability to prevent symptomatic disease with such high efficacy," said Dr. Tal Zacks, Moderna's chief medical officer. Vaccinations could begin in the second half of December, Fauci said. Vaccinations are expected to begin with high-risk groups and to be available for the rest of the population next spring.Unexpectedly high efficacy rates Last week, Pfizer announced that early data show its vaccine is more than 90% effective against the disease. In Moderna's trial, 15,000 study participants were given a placebo, which is a shot of saline that has no effect. Over several months, 90 of them developed Covid-19, with 11 developing severe forms of the disease. Another 15,000 participants were given the vaccine, and only five of them developed Covid-19. None of the five became severely ill. The company says its vaccine did not have any serious side effects. A small percentage of those who received it experienced symptoms such as body aches and headaches. Moderna plans to apply to the US Food and Drug Administration for authorization of its vaccine soon after it accumulates more safety data later this month.  Fauci says he expects the first Covid-19 vaccinations to begin "towards the latter part of December, rather than the early part of December." Initially, there won't be enough vaccine for everyone. The highest priority groups, which include health care workers, the elderly, and people with underlying medical conditions, will get the vaccine first. "I think that everybody else will start to get vaccinated towards the end of April," Fauci said. "And that will go into May, June, July. It will take a couple of months to do."  A new vaccine technology Pfizer's and Moderna's vaccines have similar results because they use the same technique to activate the body's immune system. The vaccines deliver messenger RNA, or mRNA, which is a genetic recipe for making the spikes that sit atop the coronavirus. Once injected, the body's immune system makes antibodies to the spikes. If a vaccinated person is later exposed to the coronavirus, those antibodies should stand at the ready to attack the virus. No vaccine currently on the market uses mRNA. "There has always been skepticism about mRNA -- it's brand new and would it work?" Fauci said. "What we saw in the trials is there was no real safety concern, and the efficacy is quite impressive. We saw nearly identical results [with Pfizer and Moderna] and it almost really validates the mRNA platform." Research on mRNA began many years before the current pandemic. Fauci's agency, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, has collaborated with Moderna on the development of its vaccine. Both vaccines are given in two doses several weeks apart. Practical advantages of Moderna's vaccine While the two vaccines appear to have very similar safety and efficacy profiles, Moderna's vaccine has a significant practical advantage over Pfizer's. Pfizer's vaccine has to be kept at minus 75 degrees Celsius. No other vaccine in the US needs to be kept that cold, and doctors' offices and pharmacies do not have freezers that go that low. Moderna's vaccine can be kept at minus 20 degrees Celsius. Other vaccines, such as the one against chickenpox, need to be kept at that temperature. That means Moderna's vaccine can be kept in "a readily available freezer that is available in most doctors' offices and pharmacies," Zacks said. "We leverage infrastructure that already exists for other marketed vaccines." Another advantage of Moderna's vaccine is that it can be kept for 30 days in the refrigerator, the company announced Monday. Pfizer's vaccine can last only five days in the refrigerator.(CNN) - Thousands of people lined up for groceries at a food bank distribution event in Dallas, Texas, this weekend, with organizers saying the Covid-19 pandemic has increased need in the city.North Texas Food Bank (NTFB) distributed more than 600,000 pounds of food for about 25,000 people on Saturday, according to spokeswoman Anna Kurian. There were 7,280 turkeys distributed to families, Kurian told CNN. Photos provided by NTFB show thousands of cars lined up for NTFB's Drive-Thru Mobile Pantry at Fair Park. Kurian said the need for food "has certainly increased" with the pandemic, with Texas last week becoming the first US state to report 1 million cases of coronavirus. "Forty percent of the folks coming through our partners doors are doing so for the first time," she said."I see blessings coming to us cause we all struggling. And I appreciate North Texas helping us out," Dallas resident Samantha Woods told CNN affiliate KTVT as she waited in her vehicle. "It really is amazing and I thank God that I was able to get in the line this morning."In another car, one woman told the station she had been struggling: "I haven't been working since December. I can't find a job, they cut off my unemployment -- it's a big deal. It's a real big deal."NTFB President Trisha Cunningham said she is proud of her team and the community "for providing some hope and care during these extraordinary times.""It was quite a humbling scene to see so many in need," she told CNN.NTFB has several mobile pantry events scheduled throughout the week.  Correction: An earlier version of this story misspelled the last name of Anna Kurian, the spokesperson for the North Texas Food Bank.New York  (CNN Business) - Wall Street reversed course on Tuesday, with stocks tumbling just one day after reaching new record highs.Stocks soared Monday after early results from Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine trial indicated its vaccine is highly effective, giving investors plenty of opportunity to take some profits. Both the Dow and the S&P 500 closed at all-time highs, with the Dow ending just 50 points below the 30,000 mark.But the exuberance faded Tuesday as investors faced a hard fact: While vaccines against the virus are good news for the medium- and long-term, they make little difference for the here and now. Given the resurgence in infections around the world, the winter is expected to be tough for businesses and various US states have already ramped up their restrictions on public life once again.The Dow sank 1.1%, or some 320 points, mid-morning Tuesday, while the S&P 500 slipped 0.8%. The Nasdaq Composite was down 0.3%.Economic data on Tuesday also showed October retail sales missed expectations, and economists are worrying about lower consumer spending in the winter months which could be bad news for the economy.Meanwhile, various programs designed to relieve economic hardship for workers who found themselves jobless as a result of the crisis will expire at year-end. This benefits cliff is looming over the start to President-elect Joe Biden's term in January.Editor's Note: Thomas Balcerski teaches history at Eastern Connecticut State University. He is the author of "Bosom Friends: The Intimate World of James Buchanan and William Rufus King" (Oxford University Press). He tweets @tbalcerski. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion at CNN.(CNN) - More than two weeks after Election Day, President Donald Trump still refuses to concede the race to former Vice President Joe Biden. Some high-ranking former officials from Trump's own administration (most recently his former chief of staff, John Kelly) have called for a smooth transition. And yet, many Republicans in Congress continue to stand by the President. In reality, Trump is a lame duck president. Trump's presidency has been unprecedented in many ways, but in this regard, he is like all his predecessors: His term in office will come to an end, and he will have to depart the White House to begin his next chapter. How Trump chooses to conduct the remaining days of his administration may yet define his presidency and prove a critical moment in American history.Unfortunately, the country has suffered through some truly terrible transitions. Three such transfers of power come to mind — James Buchanan to Abraham Lincoln during the secession winter of 1860 to 1861; Herbert Hoover to Franklin Delano Roosevelt during the worsening economic crisis of 1932 to 1933; and Bill Clinton to George W. Bush after the bitterly contested election of 2000.As January 20, 2021, approaches, the need for an effective transition has never been greater. The worsening Covid-19 pandemic demands a strong response from the executive branch, which will require the outgoing president to cooperate with the president-elect for the good of the nation. To avoid further tragedy, Trump and Biden must avoid the mistakes of these truly poor transitions.Here are three critical lame-duck periods from the nation's past.1860-1861: James Buchanan to Abraham LincolnThe election of 1860 provoked a serious challenge to presidential transition. In November, Lincoln won sufficient votes in the Electoral College to beat three challengers and secure a term as president. One month later, South Carolina gathered a statewide convention and unanimously voted to secede from the Union. Soon thereafter, six more southern states followed suit.Lame duck President Buchanan poorly managed the developing crisis. He announced himself against southern secession, yet he also believed the government powerless to prevent the action. Instead, Buchanan looked to Congress for a solution. A gathering of "old gentlemen" in Washington, DC, yielded a series of appeasement measures, known as the Crittenden Compromise, which aimed to protect slavery by constitutional provision.But President-elect Lincoln wisely refused to accept any compromise emanating from the unpopular Buchanan administration. On Inauguration Day, Lincoln called on Buchanan at the White House, and the two men rode together in an open carriage to the Capitol. Despite a conciliatory inaugural address, war erupted when Confederate forces fired on Fort Sumter in April 1861.The new Republican Congress was furious with Buchanan's actions during the lame duck period. They took away the franking privilege for ex-presidents (thus requiring them to affix their own postage) -- and even declined to pay for Buchanan's official portrait. Buchanan defended his actions on the "eve of rebellion" in what historians consider the first presidential memoir, but he failed to rehabilitate his reputation. For his inaction as the Union fell apart around him, he is routinely ranked the worst president in American history. 1932-1933: Herbert Hoover to Franklin D. RooseveltBy 1932, the Great Depression had plunged the American economy to new lows. Confidence had been lost in the banking system, farmers could find no market for their crops and unemployment reached nearly 25%.In November, Roosevelt's promise of a government-sponsored New Deal handily defeated Hoover's campaign for cooperative voluntarism among private individuals. The day after Election Day, at 9:34 p.m., Hoover begrudgingly conceded by telegram, writing: "In the common purpose of all of us, I shall dedicate myself to every possible helpful effort."But, in reality, Hoover did everything in his power to stand in the way of Roosevelt's New Deal. In effect, Hoover wanted Roosevelt to renounce portions of the New Deal, like his public works programs, before taking office. In turn, Roosevelt refused to collaborate in any way with the outgoing president.In the meantime, the effects of the Great Depression only worsened. On Inauguration Day, Hoover and Roosevelt shared a tense ride from the White House to the Capitol, with Roosevelt making small talk about the impressive preparations along the parade route.Mercifully, the extended lame-duck period, designed for an era when Americans traveled by horse or sail, was nearing its end. In 1933, Congress belatedly passed legislation -- first proposed by Sen. George Norris of Nebraska in 1923 -- that eventually became the 20th Amendment to the US Constitution. Among other things, the "lame duck amendment" moved forward the expiration of an outgoing president's term from March 4 to January 20 at noon.2000-2001: Bill Clinton to George W. Bush Little did the country know the crisis that would unfold starting on November 7, 2000. In one of the closest races in American history, Vice President Al Gore and Texas Gov. George W. Bush each racked up key wins in the battleground states. Yet no winner could be declared in the crucial state of Florida, despite nearly every major network calling the state earlier in the night for Gore and then reversing the call in Bush's favor.Believing that he had lost, Gore had actually telephoned Bush to concede. The vice president was en route to speak before an assembled crowd at the War Memorial in Nashville, when aides frantically rushed to stop him from going on stage. News that Florida was too close to call now convinced Gore to retract his concession and thus began a weekslong legal fight. Finally, after the Supreme Court stopped the Florida recount, Gore conceded on December 13 in a nationally televised address.As the nation awaited the result, the General Services Administration, the agency tasked with smoothing the transition to the new president, withheld "ascertainment" from both candidates. The decision delayed implementation of the Presidential Transition Act, which provides for office space and equipment as well as funds to support the incoming administration. However, Bush did receive classified briefings (and Gore received them as vice president). Still, in 2004, the 9/11 Commission found that this slow transition "hampered" the new administration's ability to place key officials in national security roles.Yet the drama was not over -- President Bill Clinton's administration did not go quietly into the night. Allegations surfaced that personnel ripped phones from the walls, defaced bathrooms, and, perhaps most childishly, removed the letter "W" from keyboards in White House computers (Clinton staffers denied many of the claims). The General Accounting Office issued a report estimating some $15,000 worth of damages.In response, Bush diligently worked to ensure a professional transition, when the time came to pass power to President-elect Barack Obama. Described as the "gold standard" of presidential transition, Obama himself followed the model in the peaceful transfer of power to Trump.Of course, Trump may yet concede the election and thus follow a venerable tradition of unifying the country that dates back to 1896. From there, he might follow past precedent and choose to attend his successor's inauguration. Yet if past is prologue, the nation should expect a continued crisis and a challenging transition period ahead. As we have too many times before, we must be prepared for a long winter of division between the outgoing and incoming administrations -- and for the nation to suffer the consequences.Washington  (CNN) - President-elect Joe Biden is set to announce who will serve in top roles in his administration in the coming days and weeks.The process began Wednesday with the Biden transition office's announcement that Ron Klain, one of Biden's most trusted campaign advisers, had been tapped to serve as his incoming chief of staff. Long seen as the most likely pick for the top job, Klain previously served as chief of staff to Vice President Al Gore during the Clinton administration and Biden during his tenure as President Barack Obama's vice president.Each of Biden's Cabinet nominees will need to be confirmed by the US Senate, which is currently controlled by Republicans. Two runoff elections in Georgia on January 5 could determine which party controls the chamber and impact the Cabinet confirmation process. The Cabinet includes the vice president and the heads of 15 executive departments: Agriculture, Commerce, Defense, Education, Energy, Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, Housing and Urban Development, Interior, Justice, Labor, State, Transportation, Treasury and Veterans Affairs. Several key positions also have Cabinet-level rank: White House chief of staff, Environmental Protection Agency administrator, Office of Management & Budget director, United States Trade Representative ambassador, Council of Economic Advisers chairman and Small Business Administration administrator. This list will be updated based on conversations with Biden allies and advisers and Democrats with knowledge of the matter.Here's who has been mentioned in conversations about potential top roles in the Biden administration:Chief of StaffRon Klain (announced on November 11)Klain, a longtime Biden aide who was a top campaign adviser, served as Biden's chief of staff in the Obama White House and was also a senior aide to the President. He previously served as the chief of staff to Vice President Al Gore and Attorney General Janet Reno. Klain was appointed in 2014 by President Barack Obama to serve as the White House Ebola Response Coordinator. In 2000, he was the General Counsel for the Gore Recount Committee. Klain has been a top debate preparation adviser to Biden, Obama, Bill Clinton, Gore, John Kerry and Hillary Clinton. Senior White House positions Cedric RichmondA co-chair of Biden's transition team and presidential campaign, the Democratic congressman from Louisiana is thought to be under consideration for several roles in the West Wing. Richmond previously served as the chairman of the influential Congressional Black Caucus. Secretary of State Susan RiceRice served in the Obama administration as UN ambassador and national security adviser. She served in Clinton's administration as the special assistant to the president and senior director for African affairs at the White House, the assistant secretary for the Bureau of African Affairs at the State Department and the director of international organizations and peacekeeping at the National Security Council. Rice was one of a handful of women on Biden's shortlist for a running mate. Rice at one point was thought to be the clear choice to succeed Hillary Clinton as secretary of state, but in 2012 withdrew her name from consideration to avoid a bitter Senate confirmation battle. Rice was the target of Republican criticism after comments she made on Sunday morning TV shows defending the Obama administration's handling of the September 11, 2012, attacks on the Benghazi consulate that killed Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans.Antony BlinkenBlinken served in the Obama administration as the deputy secretary of state, assistant to the president and principal deputy national security adviser. He served as the national security adviser to then-Vice President Biden and deputy assistant to the president during Obama's first term. He has been a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, and the Democratic staff director at the US Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. During the Clinton administration, Blinken served as a member of the National Security Council staff at the White House, and held roles as the special assistant to the president, senior director for European affairs, and senior director for speechwriting and then strategic planning. He was Clinton's chief foreign policy speechwriter. Blinken is also being considered as national security adviser. Sen. Chris CoonsCoons currently occupies the same Delaware Senate seat that Biden held for decades. A longtime Biden ally, Coons was one of the first members of Congress to endorse the former vice president when he declared his 2020 presidential candidacy. Coons sits on the following committees in the Senate: Foreign Relations, Appropriations, Judiciary, Small Business & Entrepreneurship and Select Committee on Ethics. Throughout his Senate career, Coons has been known for working across the aisle and forging strong relationships with high-profile Republicans who shared common interests. Secretary of the TreasuryLael BrainardBrainard currently serves as a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. She previously served as the Under Secretary of the US Department of the Treasury and counselor to the secretary of the Treasury during the Obama administration. Brainard was the US representative to the G-20 Finance Deputies and G-7 Deputies and was a member of the Financial Stability Board. During the Clinton administration, Brainard served as the deputy national economic adviser and deputy assistant to the President. She also served as Clinton's personal representative to the G-7/G-8.If chosen, the Federal Reserve governor would be the first woman to hold the powerful position. Brainard is not quite a consensus pick. Party progressives have other favorites, but neither would her nomination set off the kind of internal ideological war the incoming administration surely wants to avoid.Sarah Bloom RaskinRaskin was the deputy secretary of the US Department of the Treasury during the Obama administration. She was previously a governor of the Federal Reserve Board. Prior to joining the Federal Reserve Board, Raskin was the commissioner of financial regulation for the state of Maryland. Outside of Sen. Elizabeth Warren, Raskin, a former deputy secretary at the department, would be the top choice for most progressives. That she is less well known to the wider political world could also work in favor.Secretary of DefenseMichèle Flournoy If chosen and confirmed, Flournoy would be the first female secretary of defense. Flournoy served as the under secretary of defense for policy under Obama. Prior to her confirmation, Flournoy helped lead Obama's transition team at the Defense Department. During the mid-1990's, Flournoy served as principal deputy assistant secretary of defense for strategy and threat reduction, as well as deputy assistant secretary of defense for strategy. She co-founded the Center for a New American Security, a bipartisan think tank, and WestExec Advisors, a strategic advisory firm. Flournoy was a senior advisor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro MayorkasMayorkas was deputy secretary of Homeland Security during the Obama administration, and served as the director of the Department of Homeland Security's United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. While at USCIS, Mayorkas oversaw the implementation of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which was an executive action under Obama that protected young undocumented immigrants who came to the US as children from deportation. President Donald Trump moved to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program in 2017 and was ultimately blocked by the Supreme Court from doing so. Lisa MonacoMonaco played a critical role in Biden's vice presidential selection committee, and served as Homeland Security and counterterrorism advisor to Obama. Prior to that job, Monaco served as an assistant attorney general for national security at the Department of Justice, and was a chief of staff to then-Director of the FBI Robert S. Mueller III. Attorney General Sen. Doug JonesJones is the junior United States Senator from Alabama. He lost his reelection bid earlier this month to Republican Tommy Tuberville. President Bill Clinton appointed Jones as US Attorney for the Northern District of Alabama, and Jones was the lead prosecutor suing KKK members responsible for the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing. Jones was also involved in the prosecution of Eric Rudolph, whose 1998 attack on a Birmingham abortion clinic killed an off-duty police officer.Sally YatesYates was fired by Trump from her role as acting attorney general. The stunning move came after CNN and other outlets reported that Yates told Justice Department lawyers not to make legal arguments defending Trump's executive order on immigration and refugees. Trump's executive order, signed in January 2017, barred citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States for the following 90 days, suspended the admission of all refugees for 120 days and indefinitely suspended the Syrian refugee program. The executive order was later blocked by a federal judge, but the Supreme Court ultimately upheld a revised version of the ban.Yates had been appointed by Obama and was set to serve until Trump's nominee for attorney general was confirmed. Secretary of the InteriorRep. Deb HaalandHaaland is a congresswoman from New Mexico, and is one of the first Native American women to serve in Congress. Biden has said he wants an administration that looks like the country. Haaland, the vice chair of the House Natural Resources Committee, would be the first Native American Cabinet secretary if she were to get an offer and accept it. Haaland also leads the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands.Secretary of CommerceAndrew Yang Yang is an entrepreneur and former 2020 Democratic presidential candidate. He rose from obscurity to become a highly-visible candidate, and his supporters are sometimes referred to as the "Yang Gang." His presidential campaign was centered around the idea of universal basic income, and providing every US citizen with $1,000 a month, or $12,000 a year. His campaign slogan was "MATH," or "Make America Think Harder." Yang joined CNN as a political commentator in February, after dropping out of the presidential race.Secretary of Labor Sara Nelson Nelson is the international president of the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA. She cemented her image as a rising star of the labor movement during a prolonged government shutdown that stretched from December 2018 to January 2019. During the shutdown, Nelson appeared on cable television and used social media to warn of the dangers of not paying airport workers, and called for a general strike at an AFL-CIO gathering in January. Sen. Bernie SandersSanders is reaching out to potential supporters in labor to ask for their support as he mounts a campaign for the job. But he is viewed as a long shot and so far has received mix reactions from labor leaders. In his public comments before and after the election, he focused on a 100-day agenda for the Congress. But with Democrats likely needing to win both Georgia runoffs to take control of the Senate, running a powerful agency might have become more appealing.Sanders told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on Wednesday that if Biden asked him to join his Cabinet as Labor secretary, he would accept the nomination. "If I had a portfolio that allowed me to stand up and fight for working families, would I do it? Yes, I would," Sanders said. Boston Mayor Marty WalshWalsh is AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka's pick for the job, a big endorsement in what could soon turn into a contentious debate between moderate Democrats and progressives, who will favor Sen. Bernie Sanders or Michigan Rep. Andy Levin. Walsh grew up in a union family and became a top Boston labor leader before being elected mayor. Michigan Rep. Andy LevinLevin is a popular progressive who is also growing his base of support with labor leaders, including at the Communications Workers of America. The United Auto Workers are also likely allies going forward for the Michigan congressman. Like Walsh, Levin has a background as an organizer with major unions. But he also has credibility with climate activists for having helped create Michigan's Green Jobs Initiative.Health and Human Services SecretaryVivek MurthyMurthy, a doctor of internal medicine, is the co-chair of Biden's coronavirus advisory board. He previously served as the US surgeon general after being nominated by Obama. He resigned in April 2017 at the request of the Trump administration. He was confirmed by the Senate after facing opposition from Senate Republicans for calling to treat gun violence as a public health issue. Department of Housing and Urban Development SecretaryMayor Keisha Lance BottomsBottoms is the mayor of Atlanta and is a rising star of the Democratic Party. Bottoms stepped into the national spotlight when she denounced vandalism in her city as "chaos" after demonstrations over the death of George Floyd, a Black man who was killed by police in Minneapolis. Bottoms is a former judge and city council member. She was considered as a potential running mate for Biden. Secretary of EducationRandi WeingartenWeingarten is the president of the American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO and has long pushed for education reform. Prior to holding that role, she was the president of the United Federation of Teachers, AFT Local 2. Weingarten served on an education reform commission put together by New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo. She also chaired New York City's Municipal Labor Committee. Administrator of the Environmental Protection AgencyJay Inslee Inslee is the governor of Washington state, and previously served in the US House of Representatives. He was a Democratic presidential candidate in the 2020 election. Inslee is dedicated to addressing climate change and other environmental issues, and made the environment the central focus of his 2020 presidential bid. While in the US House of Representatives, he served on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and on the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.UN ambassadorPete Buttigieg Buttigieg is the former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and a former 2020 Democratic presidential candidate. Buttigieg's presidential bid was historic -- he was the first out gay man to launch a competitive campaign for president, and he broke barriers by becoming the first gay candidate to earn primary delegates for a major party's presidential nomination.(CNN) - Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell strongly opposed the Trump administration's plan to remove more troops from the Middle East in a Senate floor speech on Monday, hours after CNN and other organizations reported that the Pentagon had issued a notice to commanders to begin planning a drawdown in Afghanistan and Iraq by January 15.McConnell warned that the removal of troops would weaken the United States, strengthen its enemies and wipe out the Trump administration's victories in the Middle East over the past four years."We're playing a limited -- limited -- but important role in defending American national security and American interests against terrorists who would like nothing more than for the most powerful force for good in the world to simply pick up our ball and go home," McConnell said. "They would love that."US military commanders are anticipating that President Donald Trump will give a formal order as soon as this week to further withdraw US troops, according to two US officials. There are approximately 4,500 US troops in Afghanistan and 3,000 troops in Iraq, but the Pentagon has issued a so-called warning order to prepare for reducing the number of troops to 2,500 in both countries.While the Pentagon appears ready to remove thousands of US troops from Afghanistan and Iraq, the administration's plan also suggests that Trump will fall short of fulfilling his core promise to withdraw all of them before he leaves office on January 20.Republicans in Congress made clear on Monday that they objected to removing more troops from Afghanistan.Texas Rep. Michael McCaul, the top Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said "a residual force" must remain "for the foreseeable future," warning that a "premature" withdrawal would "jeopardize" US security interests and Afghanistan's peace negotiations.McConnell said that the consequences of a "premature" exit "would likely be even worse than President (Barack) Obama's withdrawal from Iraq back in 2011, which fueled the rise of ISIS and a new round of global terrorism." McConnell said it would be "reminiscent" to the "humiliating" end of the Vietnam War. The Senate Republican leader said that "abandoning our partners" would "embolden" the Taliban, be "welcome news" to Iran, and give al Qaeda a "big propaganda victory and a renewed safe haven for plotting attacks against America.""President Trump deserves major credit -- major credit -- for reducing US forces in Afghanistan to a sustainable level, scoring major victories against terrorists across the region and ensuring the Afghans themselves are at the front of the fight," McConnell said. "That same successful approach should continue until the conditions for long term defeat of ISIS and al Qaeda have been achieved."The Senate Majority Leader said that "a small minority in both parties seem to think it's in America's power to unilaterally resolve conflicts by simply walking away from them.""Of course, all wars must end," he said. "The question is now how they end, and whether the terms on which they end are favorable or unfavorable to the security and interests of the United States."New York  (CNN Business) - Amazon is making its biggest leap into the multi-billion-dollar health care industry with the launch of Amazon Pharmacy, a new digital drugstore.The US-based service, which became available to customers Tuesday, works just like a traditional drugstore with special added perks for Prime members. Amazon Pharmacy accepts most major insurance with the ability to manage orders on its website. Prime members can get free two-day delivery.There's also a savings benefit plan for those without insurance or people who don't want to pay with their insurance plans. Amazon Pharmacy is offering an 80% discount on generic medications and 40% off brand names. Amazon said its new service makes it "simple for customers to compare prices and purchase medications for home delivery," adding that the tedious task is now "as convenient as any other purchase" on Amazon."As more and more people look to complete everyday errands from home, pharmacy is an important and needed addition to the Amazon online store,"  Doug Herrington, senior vice president of North American Consumer for Amazon, said in a statement.Amazon Pharmacy is an extension of PillPack, the drugstore startup Amazon bought for more than $700 million in 2018. PillPack has pharmacy licenses in all 50 states and delivers medications to customers in pre-sorted doses designed to make it easier for people to take multiple medications a day. That same year, Amazon announced a health care venture with Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase, but nothing substantial has come from that yet. Hints of an Amazon drug store launch appeared in 2019 when Amazon tweaked the branding from "PillPack, an Amazon company" to "PillPack by Amazon Pharmacy." PillPack will still exist as a "distinct service for customers managing multiple daily medications for chronic conditions," noted Amazon.Shares of Rite Aid, Walgreens and CVS Health all tumbled sharply in premarket trading following Amazon's announcement. Pharmacies have been squeezed as people have filled fewer prescriptions in stores during the pandemic. Some doctor's offices closed, while many elective procedures have been put on hold and some shoppers have switched to mail-order drug delivery.Preparing for the future, Rite Aid and CVS have recently revealed store remodels with a greater emphasis on health services that is more challenging to be replicated online, including appointments with health care professionals and minor procedures with licensed clinicians. GoodRx, a discount drug program that doesn't require insurance, also fell 10% in premarket trading. Editor's Note: Elie Honig is a CNN legal analyst and former federal and state prosecutor. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion on CNN. Watch Honig answer readers' questions on "CNN Newsroom with Ana Cabrera" on weekends.(CNN) - President Donald Trump vowed over a week ago to unleash an imposing barrage of legal challenges to the result of an election that is, and should universally be recognized as, over and done. In a statement last weekend, he vowed that, on Monday, November 7, "Our campaign will start prosecuting our case in court to ensure election laws are fully upheld and the rightful winner is seated."Well, last Monday has come and gone. Turns out, all Trump's attorneys have delivered is a ridiculous mishmash of lawsuits that run the gamut from weak to entirely meritless to downright frivolous. Trump and his attorneys are humiliating themselves, and they're damaging our democracy in the process.There's no delicate way to put this: Thus far, Trump, his campaign and their surrogates have gotten absolutely pummeled in the courts. One of the great things about our legal system is that it requires actual proof — not tweets, not public statements, not viral videos — but actual verifiable evidence. And the Trump campaign's efforts to, well, trump up evidence of voter fraud have failed spectacularly.In one case filed in Georgia, the Trump campaign alleged that 53 ballots had been counted even though they had been cast after the deadline. But both of the Trump campaign's witnesses testified they did not actually know when the ballots had been received, and two other witnesses confirmed that the ballots had been received on time. That case was quickly dismissed.In another case in Michigan, the Trump campaign claimed that certain late-arriving ballots had been counted improperly. Their "evidence" was a Republican election observer who claimed that an unnamed poll worker showed her a Post-it note of unknown provenance alleging improper ballot counting. That's not evidence, that's hearsay piled up on hearsay. That case, too, was quickly tossed out.Last week, the Trump campaign somehow managed to lose or voluntarily drop nine different cases in one day. Indeed, the Trump campaign and its surrogates have even begun to pull back their own lawsuits, giving up on their case in Arizona and dropping their appeal of a loss in Nevada. And, on Monday, voters in four states dropped their lawsuits seeking to contest election results in Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.Even the lawyers are jumping ship; multiple firms have now abandoned the Trump campaign's effort to dispute the election results. The Trump campaign won one minor case in Pennsylvania, and they still might get lucky and win another here or there -- among the many they have scattered across the country. But even if they end up with a few victories, it will likely be to no avail.  Given President-elect Joe Biden's Electoral College margin of 306-232, even if Trump miraculously reversed the outcomes in, say, Pennsylvania (with its 20 electoral votes) and Georgia (16 electoral votes), Biden still wins.  And Biden's margins in those states, and other key swing states, run to the tens of thousands of votes. Trump's lawsuits thus far haven't even come close to proving (or in some cases have not even alleged) voter fraud on anything near that scale.Judges so far have gotten it right. They've tossed out the preposterously infirm lawsuits nearly as quickly as pro-Trump attorneys have filed them. As a result, our judiciary has rightly prevented the bogus "massive fraud" narrative from taking any further hold than it already has gathered from the wild pronouncements of Trump and his enablers.  It's tempting to have a laugh at the losing string of Trump campaign lawsuits. But those bringing these lawsuits deserve derision for their stubborn, pathetic attempts to conjure massive fraud where no such thing exists. However, they also are doing something more insidious: They are undermining public confidence in our election system and our democratic process.  Now, your questionsTim (Delaware): Could Republican state legislatures appoint their own slates of presidential electors to vote for President Donald Trump, even if their states voted for Biden?This won't happen, for both legal and political reasons.  Legally, Article II of the Constitution does grant state legislatures the power to determine the manner of choosing presidential electors. But every state has long had laws on the books assigning presidential electors based on the popular vote of that state (most states assign electors on an all-or-nothing basis; Nebraska and Maine appoint electors based on the popular vote in each congressional district).While state legislatures could change the manner of appointing their electors, they would need to do so by (1) passing a new law, and (2) doing it before the election for which the new rule would become effective. As a matter of basic fairness and as a legal principle, it would be nearly impossible for a state legislature to change the rules of appointment after the voters have cast their ballots in a given election.As a political matter, it is very unlikely that state legislatures would even seriously consider appointing a slate of electors, after the election, contrary to their states' popular votes. No state legislature of either party has shown any serious inclination to even consider such a precipitous, politically self-destructive move. Don't lose sleep over this one.Gordon (Texas): If the Senate ends up split 50-50, who controls the majority and the agenda?Republicans currently hold a 50-48 advantage over Democrats for the upcoming Senate session, which will begin in January 2021, with two Georgia runoffs pending. If Democrats win both those Georgia runoffs, the Senate will be split 50-50.Article I of the Constitution provides that the vice president breaks a tie vote in the Senate: "The Vice President of the United States shall be President of the US Senate, but shall have no vote, unless they be equally divided." (This is, interestingly, the only specific duty of the vice president outlined in the Constitution, other than succeeding to the presidency upon death or resignation of the president).With Kamala Harris soon to take office as Vice President, the Democrats would then hold the tiebreaker advantage.Tim (Texas): Are there any legal requirements to become a justice on the Supreme Court?There are no age, residency or nationality requirements to become a Supreme Court justice, unlike many other of our highest public offices. For example, the US Constitution requires that the president must be at least 35 years old, be a "natural born citizen" of the United States and have 14 years of residency in the country. A US senator must be 30 years old, with nine years of US citizenship and must reside in the state he or she represents. And a US representative must be at least 25 years old, with seven years of citizenship and must reside in the state he or she represents.The Constitution does not even specify that a Supreme Court justice must be a lawyer. Two justices who served in the 1940s and 1950s, James Byrnes and Robert Jackson, studied law but did not hold formal law degrees (though Jackson was awarded a degree the same year he was confirmed to the court).Three questions to watch1. Will the Trump campaign get any traction in its ongoing effort to contest election results?2. Will the incoming Biden administration take legal action to compel the General Services Administration to turn over transition funding?3. Will we begin to see Trump issue pardons during his final weeks in office?(CNN) - Joe Biden won't be sworn in for another 64 days, but the President-elect is already under pressure from activist groups to bring progressive leaders into his administration -- and close its doors to establishment figures with cozy relationships to Wall Street, defense contractors and the fossil fuel industry.The pressure campaign has played out in public, with the release of open letters and lists of acceptable candidates for top Cabinet positions, via private calls with potential nominees, and on social media, where progressive groups have warned the incoming administration against reneging on Biden's promise to forge an aggressive new path in the fight against climate change.Top progressives are, for now, sounding a cautiously optimistic tone following the release of Biden's "agency review teams" and his quick decision to name longtime adviser Ron Klain, who has built bonds across ideological lines, as his White House chief of staff. But there are potential fights on the horizon and the uncertainty surrounding control of the Senate could further complicate a detente that has largely carried over from the campaign. If Democrats fail to win both run-off elections in Georgia early next year, the body will remain under the control of Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell -- and everything from Biden's legislative agenda to his Cabinet nominations would likely face partisan blockades.There are also concerns among some progressives over whether the coalition has the capacity to speak with one voice on a broad range of issues, including arenas where it is less organized and engaged, like national security."That's one of the growing pains for the progressive movement, which is how do we organize to maximize our power? You have to do that by building collaboration," said Nina Turner, a former top aide on Sen. Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign. "I just don't think we do that enough, not yet anyway. I'm sure that all of the different progressive groups probably have their list, and have been thinking about it, but we would be stronger if we came together and decided on a list and then went forward that way."Lists of names -- and demandsThe Progressive Change Institute, an organization with ties to Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, sent a letter to the Biden transition team and made public a list of 400 names, each with a brief biography, that should be considered for key personnel roles at every level of government. Progressive groups Justice Democrats and the Sunrise Movement have also released a roster of preferred names for key leadership roles in the administration, along with a call for the creation of a White House Office of Climate Mobilization. The director of the new office, an idea promoted by the Biden-Sanders "unity task forces," would report directly to the President and have the authority to bring together leaders from an assortment of federal agencies -- a position akin to the national security adviser, but with a mandate to address every aspect of the climate crisis."You really use that convening power and authority to move forward on this crisis, whether or not Democrats have the Senate," said Sunrise Movement political director and co-founder Evan Weber. "It's something that Joe Biden without having to go through the Senate. It doesn't have to be appointed. It's not like a cabinet pick that would have to be approved."Among the group's top choices to run the office is Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, who ran a brief but influential Democratic primary campaign. Some of his former aides and supporters went on to form Evergreen Action, a group dedicated to jumpstarting a "national mobilization to defeat the climate crisis."   "I think Gov. Inslee would really make a fantastic part of a Biden-Harris administration. This new position that we envision, this sort of special assistant to the president on climate mobilization, for us, would be the sort of dream location for him," Weber said.The post-campaign posturing among both progressive organizations and the incoming administration is a stark reversal from what followed the election of Barack Obama in 2008, when the left largely demobilized and party establishment figures dominated the transition's selections for powerful insider roles.  "Progressives definitely have a seat at the table and the Biden team is serious about listening to all stakeholders, which includes progressives," Jeff Hauser, executive director of the Revolving Door Project, told CNN. "I think progressives are being listened to much more than in 2008 or would likely have been the case at this point in time four years ago."Hauser pointed to the roles handed to Biden aides like Klain and the President-elect's longtime Senate chief of staff and 2020 transition chief Ted Kaufman as evidence that progressive priorities, like constraining the influence of Wall Street, are being taken seriously by Biden's team."The agency review team for Treasury and the Federal Reserve and other financial regulators reflect both Kaufman's history and what I think is Biden's true North Star, which is that he does not see himself as a Wall Street Democrat," Hauser said. "I don't think he does."Naming Gary Gensler, a Goldman Sachs alum who turned on the industry and emerged as a top Warren ally, to lead the transition's Federal Reserve, Banking and Securities Regulators group was another victory for progressives -- and clear signal that the Biden administration is positioning itself to take a harder line against the big banks.But it remains to be seen whether that translates into the big ticket nominations the left is lobbying for. Warren is progressives' choice to lead the Treasury Department, but the favorite for the job is Lael Brainard, a Federal Reserve governor with better relations on Wall Street. Though lower profile than Warren, the selection of Sarah Bloom Raskin, a deputy secretary of the Treasury under Obama, would be considered a significant win for progressives.Meanwhile, Sanders' private push for public support from union leaders as he pursues a nomination to run the Labor Department has yet to gain much traction. The Vermont senator was the top choice in the list put out by Justice Democrats and the Sunrise Movement, but Michigan Rep. Andy Levin, who also appeared on their slate, has now been endorsed by the Communications Workers of America, the United Auto Workers and, notably, National Nurses United, a longtime Sanders ally. As progressives begin to coalesce around Levin, Boston Mayor Marty Walsh, who has AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka lobbying on his behalf, is also emerging as a leading candidate. American Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees President Lee Saunders and American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten have also said they would back the moderate Walsh for Secretary of Labor.   Tensions bubbling upThe race for top foreign policy positions, most notably on the defense front, is another potential flashpoint. Michèle Flournoy is considered the leading contender for Secretary of Defense and would become the first woman to lead the department if selected and confirmed. But her seat on the board of defense contractor Booz Allen Hamilton and other ties to the industry, along with what many progressives view as hawkish positions that have fallen out of line with the Democratic mainstream, has invited some early opposition.In a letter to Biden last week that did not name Flournoy, but was widely viewed as pushback on her potential nomination, Reps. Mark Pocan of Wisconsin and Barbara Lee of California, two leading House progressives, requested "that the next Secretary of Defense have no prior employment history with a defense contractor." "One of the big issues over the last four years was Yemen and the US relationship with the Saudis and the Emiratis, because of the war in Yemen. And you saw a lot of folks, Ben (Rhodes) among them, and others who said, we got this wrong in the Obama administration. We've learned some lessons," said Stephen Miles, executive director of Win Without War. "The fact we haven't heard some of those things from Michelle is concerning. We'll be looking for evidence that folks have seen and learned some lessons about the last four years."Flournoy sought to address some of those concerns in a recent call with progressive foreign policy groups, two sources -- including one on the line for the discussion -- told CNN. Her proactive approach to heading off a clash with party progressives suggests that potential nominees, in the estimation of many on the left, are conscious of the Biden team's desire to head off intra-party clashes.  "I think she has to really show an introspection about how the Afghanistan escalation was a mistake, how the war in Yemen was a mistake, how the interventions in the Middle East and Libya was a mistake," said California Rep. Ro Khanna, who led the House charge to pass a War Powers Resolution aimed at ending US involvement in Yemen. "And that's she's going to have a different approach to those policies."Even as the jockeying intensifies, the debates over the incoming administration's top Cabinet posts, personnel and policy priorities is still in its infancy. If Democrats take control of the Senate with a pair of victories in Georgia, Biden will gain power but also lose a negotiating point -- that he has no choice but put forward nominees that can win some GOP support -- with progressives. But for some on the left, the particulars of the balance of power on Capitol Hill are a secondary concern. Biden campaigned on a promise that he could successfully engage with Republicans and convince enough of them to allow him the ability to govern, they reason, so progressives should not tamp down their pressure campaign in deference to partisan challenges.Phillip Agnew, co-founder of the Dream Defenders and a senior adviser to Sanders' 2020 campaign, compared the fight to keep establishment figures like former Obama chief of staff Rahm Emanuel, a longtime liberal antagonist, out of Biden's government to the battle Democrats waged against Betsy DeVos, President Donald Trump's Secretary of Education."I think we should give no quarter to any cabinet appointment. I think the cabinet process should become one of the hardest that any president has ever kind of experienced," Agnew said a recent event hosted by the leftist publisher Haymarket Books. "This is an opportunity for us to really flex."(CNN) - The usual display of wreaths will be noticeably absent from Arlington National Cemetery this December.The cemetery notified Wreaths Across America that its annual tradition of placing wreaths on veterans' graves will not be allowed this year due to the pandemic.The organization is a nonprofit group that places wreaths annually on the second or third Saturday of December at cemeteries across the nation. This year, the event is scheduled to take place on December 19 at more than 2,400 participating cemeteries."As an organization, we are shocked by this unexpected turn of events," the group said in a statement."To say we are devastated, would be an understatement. It has been a trying year for all, and we too, want all our volunteers, donors and their communities to remain safe!"In the last two weeks, Virginia has averaged over 1,000 new daily Covid-19 cases. It is one of 29 states to recently record its highest seven-day average for new cases, and the state also recorded its highest single-day number for new cases on Monday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University."We did not make this decision lightly. Despite the controls developed to disperse potential crowds in time and space, and required personal safety protocols, we determined that hosting any event of this scale risked compromising our ability to accomplish our core mission of laying veterans and their eligible family members to rest," Karen Durham-Aguilera, the executive director of the Office of Army National Cemeteries and Arlington National Cemetery, said in a statement. "We understand that although this is disappointing for so many, we could no longer envision a way to safely accommodate the large number of visitors we typically host during this event."Arlington National Cemetery said in a statement that it hopes to continue the annual wreath-laying ceremony in 2021.Washington  (CNN) - NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg issued a stark warning Tuesday that any premature withdrawal from Afghanistan could be dangerous, a day after CNN and other outlets reported that President Donald Trump is eyeing a troop drawdown against the advice of the nation's top military officials."The price for leaving too soon or in an uncoordinated way could be very high. Afghanistan risks becoming once again a platform for international terrorists to plan and organise attacks on our homelands. And ISIS could rebuild in Afghanistan the terror caliphate it lost in Syria and Iraq," Stoltenberg said in a statement to CNN. CNN, citing two US officials familiar with the matter, reported on Monday that US military commanders are anticipating that a formal order will be given by Trump as soon as this week to begin a further withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan and Iraq before Trump leaves office on January 20. But then-Secretary of Defense Mark Esper sent a classified memo earlier this month to the White House asserting that it was the unanimous recommendation of the chain of command that the US not draw down its troop presence in Afghanistan any further until conditions were met, sources familiar with the memo tell CNN.It is believed that the memo, first reported by The Washington Post, is one of the main reasons why Trump fired Esper last week.In his statement, Stoltenberg also noted that the NATO presence in Afghanistan was in support of the United States following the 9/11 attacks on the US. "NATO went into Afghanistan after an attack on the United States to ensure that it would never again be a safe haven for international terrorists," he said. "Hundreds of thousands of troops from Europe and beyond have stood shoulder to shoulder with American troops in Afghanistan, and over one thousand of them have paid the ultimate price."He also called for all NATO allies to honor their commitment and to withdraw when the time is right. "We went into Afghanistan together. And when the time is right, we should leave together in a coordinated and orderly way. I count on all NATO allies to live up to this commitment, for our own security," he said.The Pentagon has issued a notice to commanders known as a "warning order" to begin planning to drawdown the number of troops in Afghanistan to 2,500 troops and 2,500 in Iraq by January 15, the officials said. Currently, there are approximately 4,500 US troops in Afghanistan and 3,000 troops in Iraq.But the assessment shared by Esper from the chain of command -- Esper, US Central Command leader Marine Gen. Kenneth "Frank" McKenzie and commander of NATO's mission in Afghanistan Gen. Austin Miller -- stated that the necessary conditions had not been met. Others agreed, sources tell CNN, including Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley.(CNN) - The Democratic-led House Judiciary Committee asked the Supreme Court on Tuesday to postpone oral arguments in an upcoming case concerning grand jury material redacted from former special counsel Robert Mueller's report.The lawyers argued that now that Joe Biden has been elected president and a new Congress will begin in early January, a "newly constituted" committee will determine whether it wishes to continue to pursue the documents.   If the court grants the request, it would put off a major separation of powers fight, testing the ability of the Justice Department to control grand jury information from a historic, deeply political investigation it conducted that could also aid congressional investigations.In February, the Supreme Court granted the Trump administration's request to take up the case, blocking the release of the documents for now.Arguments are currently set for December 2.The Justice Department is seeking to prevent the release of the information, which includes portions of Mueller's report that were redacted to protect grand jury information and underlying grand jury testimony and exhibits that relate to certain individuals and events.The grand jury materials in question could shed considerable light on Russian election-meddling and then-candidate Donald Trump's response in 2016. Dozens of witnesses testified before Mueller's grand jury, according to CNN reporting, including Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort and at least two people who attended the infamous Trump Tower meeting in summer 2016.(CNN) - Greenland's largest glaciers could lose even more ice than previously predicted -- a development that could have huge consequences for the rate of global sea level rise, according to a new study published Tuesday.Greenland's ice sheet is already melting rapidly, and that ice loss is one of the main contributors to rising sea levels. Planet-heating greenhouse gas emissions like carbon dioxide are accelerating this melt. But what experts have less information on is how these vital glaciers have changed in the past, particularly in the centuries before satellite records existed. Understanding how glaciers have responded to past changes in climate can impact projections scientists make about how they may respond to future warming. The new study, published in the journal Nature Communications, has filled in some of those gaps. The researchers found that Greenland's glaciers are very sensitive to climate conditions, and have lost ice in the late-19th and early-20th century at rates that rival or surpass those seen today. With the planet -- and the Arctic in particular -- expected to warm much more this century, the scientists warn their findings show that ice loss on Greenland could exceed even the worst-case projections.David Holland, a professor of mathematics and environmental science at New York University and a co-author of the study, said the team's findings show that the Arctic "is undergoing a one-two punch with respect to the loss of its land and sea ice covers in a warming world."Using historical photographs of the Jakobshavn, Helheim and Kangerlussuaq glaciers, the team calculated ice loss from 1880 to 2012. They estimated that the amount of ice lost from these three glaciers alone resulted in a sea level rise of 8.1 millimeters. Holland said that while the three glaciers are important in their own right, they also serve as proxies for the majority of the other outlet glaciers in Greenland, giving scientists a glimpse at how the entire ice sheet behaves. Greenland's ice sheet is a dynamic place that is constantly shifting and moving. If we think of the interior of the ice sheet as a mountain lake, Moon says, these outlet glaciers are the streams fanning out from the lake, carrying ice away from it and in many cases, into the ocean. When ice breaks off from the glacier and lands in the ocean, it raises sea levels."These three glaciers are among the fastest moving in Greenland. When we think about these glaciers all around the edge of Greenland acting like conveyor belts (moving ice towards the ocean), these are some of the fastest, largest conveyor belts on the ice sheet," said Twila Moon, deputy lead scientist at the National Snow and Ice Data Center in Boulder, Colorado, who wasn't involved in the study.The glaciers also hold enough ice to raise global sea levels by roughly 1.3 meters.Ice loss over time is driven by natural shifts in winds and ocean currents, and when warm waters get near the glaciers, they melt, Holland says. But human-caused warming has altered the climate and is changing how the winds and ocean interact with the ice sheet, and therefore influencing the amount of ice loss.The team found that rates of ice loss for the Jakobshavn Glacier in the early 1900s were comparable to the huge rates of loss seen today, and for the Kangerlussuaq Glacier, ice loss between 1880 and 1930 was actually larger than present day.That's significant because it shows that the glaciers were losing large amounts of ice at a time when global temperatures were lower than they are now. Under a worst case-scenario in which humans continue to raise concentrations of these heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere, the planet could warm by 3.7 degrees Celsius (6.66 degrees Fahrenheit) by the end of this century. If the glaciers have already suffered large ice losses when atmospheric and ocean temperatures were lower -- and the planet is set to warm even more under a high-emissions future -- the scientists say their findings could mean models used to predict future ice loss in Greenland could be underestimating how much will be lost by the end of the century. That could also impact current projections of sea level rise.Rising seas are already causing problems in many low-lying coastal areas. And for places like New York and Shanghai, 1 meter or more of sea level rise could spell disaster. Another recent study found that rising seas could cost the global economy $14.2 trillion in lost or damaged assets by the end of the century, and expose as many as 287 million people to episodic flooding, up from 171 million today."I think when it comes to the pace of change in Greenland and really with ice everywhere in the world, we're already at five-alarm status," said Moon. "And this paper is one more paper in that monstrous pile that says these are really serious changes, they're happening very quickly and we we need to be taking action as soon as possible so that we can try to reduce the rate of change in the future."In the study, the scientists said that the possible underestimation of ice loss is likely "not limited to just these three glaciers," and that it was important that models capture rapid glacial retreat as a result of human-induced warming of our oceans and atmosphere "as they are the primary driver of mass loss."The team hopes their findings on how glaciers are sensitive to changes in the climate will help increase the reliability of future projections of ice loss. "The Arctic is losing ice, and as you look in greater detail over the last century, you see periods of more loss and less loss, but always loss," Holland said. "With increased warming projected to continue into the future, increased ice loss can be expected with potentially serious negative consequences for coastal cities around the world."(CNN) - Thanksgiving has always been a big deal for Sara Wellensiek and her family.Every year, the Phoenix blogger, her husband and their three boys fly to Nebraska to spend the week seeing loved ones. They go to a University of Nebraska Cornhuskers football game. They eat pumpkin spice treats. They spend the actual holiday with relatives. Then they come back to Arizona and have another celebration at home.All told, Wellensiek estimated her fivesome probably has close contact with between 20 and 30 other people over the course of the week — not counting interactions with strangers on planes, in stadiums and around town.This year, however, the family will see almost nobody. Because they're not even planning to leave the house.The reason for this change in plans: the Covid-19 pandemic. Like many people, Wellensiek said she doesn't want to risk getting the virus or giving it to people she loves. She also doesn't want to contribute to another spike of cases in her community."We choose to stay home to protect ourselves, our family and friends, and the community at large," she said via email. "Without the Covid pandemic, our plans would not have changed." Wellensiek's concerns are shared by many others. Across the country, many people are responding to the pandemic by making similar decisions about this US holiday. None of these choices is easy, and managing feelings about skipping annual family Thanksgiving traditions can be hard. Communicating your decision clearly and thoughtfully can be the toughest task of all.Note the rulesBefore you can accept or decline a Thanksgiving invite, it's important to figure out how to stay safe. On November 11, the US Centers for Disease Control & Prevention updated guidelines for holiday celebrations. The takeaway: In-person gatherings pose varying levels of risk.Long, indoor gatherings with lots of people pose more of a risk than short, outdoor shindigs with a select few, the CDC noted.Another factor: the number and rate of Covid-19 cases in the community of celebration.In most states, up-to-date statistics on case numbers and community spread can be found on the area's health department website.In areas where these numbers are rising, gatherings bring with them much greater potential risk, said Dr. Ramon Tallaj, founder and chairman of Somos Community Care, a network of health care providers serving New York City."You have to be smart," said Tallaj, who helped implement citywide treatment protocols when New York was a Covid hotspot this spring. "If cases are on the rise in your area, don't do it. If you're going to celebrate in a small apartment with lots of people, don't do it. We have pushed so many other things off and this should be no different. Really, what's another year?"Focus on your safetyIf you opt to bail on tradition this year, etiquette experts said it's a good idea to express your choice as a personal one.Using "I statements," or statements that start with the first-person pronoun, make clear to loved ones that your decision has nothing to do with them, said Kianga Kelley-Crowley, founder and owner of Simply a Lady, an etiquette and communications consulting company in Wichita, Kansas."It's all right to say, 'I prefer not to get together with everyone,' or 'I'm sorry but we're not going to be able to attend this year,'" she said. "Take responsibility for your decision. Own it. Speak the truth to your family members. It's perfectly acceptable to say you're focusing on your own safety and would rather stay home."Lisa Mirza Grotts, who calls herself the "Golden Rules Gal," added that her buzzword of the season is risk.The etiquette expert said she has focused on explaining her decisions only in terms of potential danger — nothing else. This approach has made it easier for her to communicate unpleasant news, she noted. "When you share your feelings in the context of risk — 'I don't want to be a virus spreader and put others at risk' — the sentiment is very straightforward," said Grotts, who is based in San Francisco. "This is one of the easiest outs there ever will be. It's not about you. It's about others and what you can do to them."Managing the feelingsAll that said, families are complicated, and altering an age-old tradition could put you at risk of hurting someone's feelings inadvertently.It's incredibly uncomfortable to say, "No, thank you" to people with whom you generally have a history of agreeing, said Sharman Regensburg, a psychotherapist in East Northport, New York.Charged interactions with family members, she noted, could lead to other conflicts or create serious internal pressure — both situations that also can be difficult to navigate.Still, she said, particularly when it comes to your own health, you must speak your mind."In scenarios like this one there rarely is one right answer," Regensburg said. "You have to do what you think is best, follow your heart, be respectful in doing so. But also accept that by declining the invitation, you could be alienating that family member for years."While it's perfectly normal that declining Thanksgiving plans would leave you feeling sad, Regensburg said that the emotion of guilt in this case likely represents something else."You can acknowledge you're sad and disappointed, but if you feel guilt, you're probably feeling angry that your loved one isn't honoring your wishes," she said. "Usually guilt is what you feel when you've done something you probably shouldn't have done. In this case, there's nothing wrong about declining the invite, so there shouldn't be guilt."Giving thanks differentlyThere are plenty of alternatives to getting together with family members for a traditional Thanksgiving celebration this year. If you're interested in pursuing other options, you can find something that works for everyone.Perhaps the easiest of the bunch is to follow in the footsteps of most workplaces and embrace a virtual holiday.Here, one family member can assume the role of party planner and set up the meeting, send out invites and serve as "host" for the live event. On a basic level, participants can have the virtual shindig running during their respective dinners, so everyone feels like they're sitting at the table together.For a more sophisticated approach, Kianga Kelley-Crowley suggested distributing prepackaged meals in advance, so everyone is eating the same thing at the same time, together over Zoom.  As a way to say "We are thinking of you" to her usual holiday co-celebrants, Grotts said she was buying them a complete Thanksgiving dinner from a supermarket in their area.As Tallaj suggested, an in-person gathering can work, too — so long as the event is held outside and all parties wear face coverings, engage in physical distancing of at least 6 feet, and practice good hand hygiene.To pave the way for this type of gathering, clinical psychologist Angela Waldrop said it may be necessary to ask family members some pointed questions about how well they've been keeping safe. Waldrop likened this questionnaire to the same kind of interview someone might give a new sexual partner. Some of these questions include: How frequently have you come into close contact with people outside of your household? To what extent are you wearing facial coverings and maintaining safe distance from others when you are out and about? Where outside your immediate neighborhood have you traveled in the last month?She added that it's important loved ones understand why you're asking."It's like interviewing them about where they've been and who they've slept with," said Waldrop, who's based in San Francisco. "We can't control each other, but we're within our rights to ask — especially during a pandemic."Editor's Note: David A. Andelman, (@DavidAndelman) a contributor to CNN, twice winner of the Deadline Club Award, and executive director of The Red Lines Project, is the author of the forthcoming "A Red Line in the Sand: Diplomacy, Strategy, and the History of Wars That Could Still Happen." He formerly was a foreign correspondent for The New York Times and CBS News in Asia and Europe. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion at CNN.(CNN) - While much of the world has been preoccupied with the President's refusal to acknowledge his 2020 election loss to Joe Biden, Donald Trump has been moving building blocks in a way that, if successful, could have a significant impact on America's security abroad and safety at home.On Monday, the Pentagon issued a "warning notice" to theater commanders to begin a further, substantial drawdown of US forces from both Afghanistan and Iraq by January 15, five days before Trump will leave office.This follows Trump's preparatory move, a takedown of the upper reaches of the Pentagon at a critical and most sensitive moment in national security -- the interregnum between two administrations. Trump fired Defense Secretary Mark Esper last Monday and named Christopher Miller, the former director of the National Counterterrorism Center, acting secretary in his place.Miller's new chief of staff will be Kash Patel, who tried to discredit investigations into the Trump campaign's contacts with Russia while he was an aide to former House Intelligence Committee chair Devin Nunes. Retired Army Col. Douglas Macgregor, who has made racist and xenophobic comments and called for the use of deadly force at the US-Mexico border, will serve as Miller's senior adviser. The shake-up also involved replacing James Anderson, who resigned from the Pentagon's top policy role on Tuesday, with retired Army Brig. Gen. Anthony Tata, who, according to CNN's KFile, has made a number of Islamophobic tweets, some of which he later deleted, and who once labeled President Obama a "terrorist leader."What do these new appointees all have in common? Each of them is likely willing and prepared to implement Trump's military goal of withdrawing US troops around the world. While Trump, who spent years slamming US involvement in "endless wars," has announced drawdowns in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria, thousands of US troops are still deployed in the region.Trump wanted all American forces out of Afghanistan by the end of the year, and sources told CNN's Jake Tapper that the White House may have directed the Defense Department purge because Esper and his team were pushing back on a premature withdrawal there.Still, if the warning notices are carried through, some 2,500 troops would still be left in each theater -- though Trump's goal had been zero troops by the time he left office. It was unclear whether leaving such a small number of American troops in bitterly contested areas could endanger the safety of those still deployed.Miller issued a memo to the Defense Department just after midnight Saturday that read, "Ending wars requires compromise and partnership. We met the challenge; we gave it our all. Now, it's time to come home." Macgregor, on the other hand, made his views apparent when he told Tucker Carlson in 2019 that the US should withdraw troops from Afghanistan and Syria immediately.Even before the latest Pentagon reshuffle, the US timeline to withdraw troops from Afghanistan was wildly inconsistent.US military leaders have stressed that a withdrawal there would be contingent on certain conditions, including the Taliban breaking ties with al Qaeda and making progress in peace talks with the Afghan government. Both of these conditions have not yet been met, and prematurely withdrawing US troops would not only destroy the credibility of our country, but also remove any incentive to achieve these goals.The situation in Afghanistan is fraught. In a quarterly report to Congress on October 30, the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction reported that the "average daily enemy-initiated attacks in Afghanistan were 50% higher this quarter (July-September) than last quarter" and "above seasonal norms." The Department of Defense believes the Taliban "is calibrating its use of violence to harass and undermine" the Afghan government while keeping these attacks "at a level it perceives is within the bounds of the [US -- Taliban] agreement, probably to encourage a US troop withdrawal and set favorable conditions for a post-withdrawal Afghanistan."  A US troop withdrawal could pave the way for the Taliban to return promptly to power.This would only create a bigger headache for the Biden administration. The last time the United States ousted the Taliban from power, after they had been found to be harboring al Qaeda leaders as they were planning the 9/11 terrorist attacks, it took an invasion force of about 2,500. But over time, that force peaked at 100,000 US troops in 2011.Trump has also expressed a desire to move American forces out of Syria and Iraq, although concrete plans have often conflicted with the President's own messaging. After Trump announced the US would withdraw from Syria in October 2019, a new wave of troops poured in, leaving the total number in Syria largely unchanged. In August, Trump announced all US troops would leave Iraq "shortly," and about three weeks later, a top military commander said the US would be cutting the number of troops there in half, to about 3,000. Now, with the new brass in charge at the Pentagon, Trump could have a clearer path to achieving his goals.In Iraq and Syria, "an abrupt US pullout removes one of the more major forms of direct and indirect pressure on the countless militia groups controlled by Iran," Phillip Smyth, a Soref Fellow at The Washington Institute, and one of America's leading experts on Mideast militias, told me in an e-mail exchange. "Ideologically and in terms of long-term goals, Tehran wants US forces out, and they want to use any pullout as an example of the US as a paper tiger." An American withdrawal, Smyth points out, "would enable Iran to use its militias to fill the vacuum left by departing U.S. forces. Smyth has tracked the emergence of around 20 new front groups, and all have demanded US pullout of Iraq.   History shows us that transitions in US governments can be a vulnerable time.The bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, took place on December 21, 1988, as George H. W. Bush was preparing to take over from President Ronald Reagan. And in his final weeks in office in December 1992, Bush, preparing to turn over the presidency to Bill Clinton, ordered 25,000 American troops into Somalia -- which led less than a year later to the deaths of 18 American soldiers in the Black Hawk Down incident.Now, the US focus on Trump's refusal to concede the election and Biden being sidelined from national security briefings could encourage anti-US forces inclined to profit from any perception of American weakness or hesitation.The costs of pulling US troops out of volatile regions prematurely could drag the US back into war all over again. This would be a horrific burden on the Biden administration, especially given the coronavirus pandemic and its economic fallout.This is not the time for the US to let its guard down and abandon conflicts that will only pose a new threat to our national security -- even if it is being done largely to fulfill Trump's campaign promises rather than because he wants to leave his successor with a toxic legacy to clean up.New York  (CNN Business) - Low interest rates have helped fuel a boom in the US housing market: Last quarter Americans' mortgage debt climbed to a record high of nearly $10 trillion, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York reported Tuesday.Homebuyers are leveraging the near-constant new lows in rates. At the beginning of this month mortgage rates fell to a record low -- the 12th record low in 2020. So it's no surprise that Americans are out buying houses. Between July and September, mortgage debt increased by $85 billion to a total of $9.86 trillion, a record high, according to the report. Mortgages are the largest contributor to household debt in the United States. The New York Fed's report was full of records or near-records.For example, when combining new home loans as well as refinancings, the value of new mortgages was even higher at $1.05 trillion. That's the second-highest volume on record, rivaled only by the refinancing boom of 2003, according to the report.And though mortgage debt is now much higher than it was during the housing boom ahead of the 2008 financial crisis, it's notable that the share of borrowers with credit scores above 760 points is far higher than it has been in the past.Auto and student loansIt's not just home loans that boomed. A rush to buy cars also propped up auto loans and leases, which climbed to the highest level on record: $1.36 trillion.Meanwhile, rates of loan delinquencies fell in the third quarter, helped by the forbearance programs created by the CARES Act that allowed for deferral of payments, as well as deferrals offered by lenders.Student loan delinquencies, for example, dropped to 4.4% in the third quarter, down from 9.3% in the second quarter.However, the government's forbearance programs are due to sunset at year-end, leaving people benefiting from those pandemic policies in limbo.Only 132,000 consumers had a bankruptcy notation on their credit reports between July and September, a new historical low, the NY Fed said.Overall, according to the report, household debt climbed by $87 billion to a total of $14.35 trillion last quarter. That's a new high, beating the previous record notched in the first quarter of the year.(CNN) - As House Democrats prepare to reelect their entire leadership team this week, one thing has come into clear focus 14 days removed from the 2020 election: They got beat -- badly.While much of the focus in the days immediately after November 3 fell on whether Joe Biden had beaten Donald Trump (he had) and whether Democrats would win back the Senate majority (they haven't -- yet), the last few days have been filled with close House races (finally) being projected. And those projections reveal just how poorly House Democrats did.With just a handful of races still uncalled at this point, Republicans have gained nine seats -- having won 12 Democratic-held districts and lost just three of their own. And those numbers don't even tell the full story, given that two of the three seats Republicans lost were the direct result of a redrawing of North Carolina's congressional districts that reworked the map in ways that were decidedly unfavorable to the GOP. Subtract those two seats, which neither party spent any money in or seriously contested, and you are down to a single competitive seat that went from red to blue: The suburban Atlanta 7th District.As David Wasserman, the House editor at the Cook Political Report, a non-partisan campaign tip sheet, noted on Twitter on Monday:"It's been almost two weeks since Election Day, and Democrats still haven't won a *single one* of the 27 House races in @CookPolitical's Toss Up column."That's an incredible stat -- especially when you consider that the Democratic presidential nominee won 306 electoral votes (and a 4-million-plus popular vote margin) at the top of the ticket. And especially when you factor in the predictions of House Democratic leaders and independent handicappers that Democrats were poised to net double-digit seats and widen their majority.To date, Democratic leaders have received something of a pass regarding just how badly they missed what was coming on November 3. While some vulnerable Democrats -- Virginia Rep. Abigail Spanberger, most notably -- have made clear their dissatisfaction with the way the election played out, there hasn't been any sort of popular revolt against any member of the party leadership up to and including Speaker Nancy Pelosi."We did not win every battle in the House, but we did win the war," Pelosi said in the aftermath of the election, making the point that no matter how the uncalled races fall, Democrats will still hold the House majority come January 2021.  And even as House Democrats have sustained even more losses as races have been called over the last 10 days, Pelosi has grown more strident in her defense of the results. "I take credit for winning a majority and holding the House," she said recently.Which seems just fine with her Democratic colleagues! Pelosi, as well as House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (Maryland) and House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn (South Carolina), are all expected to be reelected to their current leadership jobs this week by the full Democratic caucus.But reelected or not, there's simply no spinning what happened to House Democrats on November 3. It was a bad-bordering-on-disastrous election, particularly when you consider that their majority will be quite narrow heading into Biden's first midterm election, which, if history holds, is a bad one for the incumbent's party.(CNN) - US military commanders are anticipating that a formal order will be given by President Donald Trump as soon as this week to begin a further withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan and Iraq before Trump leaves office on January 20, according to two US officials familiar.The Pentagon has issued a notice to commanders known as a "warning order" to begin planning to drawdown the number of troops in Afghanistan to 2,500 troops and 2,500 in Iraq by Jan 15, the officials said. Currently there are approximately 4,500 US troops in Afghanistan and 3,000 troops in Iraq.The Pentagon and White House did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment. While Monday's news indicates that the Pentagon appears ready to remove thousands more US troops from Afghanistan and Iraq, it also suggests that Trump may fall short of fulfilling one of his core promises to withdraw all US troops from Afghanistan before he leaves office.On October 7 Trump tweeted: "We should have the small remaining number of our BRAVE Men and Women serving in Afghanistan home by Christmas!"  Then-Secretary of Defense Mark Esper sent a classified memo earlier this month to the White House asserting that it was the unanimous recommendation of the chain of command that the US not draw down its troop presence in Afghanistan any further until conditions were met, sources familiar with the memo tell CNN.The assessment from the chain of command -- Esper, US Central Command leader Marine Gen. Kenneth "Frank" McKenzie and commander of NATO's mission in Afghanistan Gen. Austin Miller -- stated that the necessary conditions had not been met. Others agreed, sources tell CNN, including Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley.The memo is believed to have been one of the main reasons why Trump fired Esper last week.Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell did not criticize Trump directly Monday while discussing the drawdown plans but warned of the potential ramifications of a rapid withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan, saying it would "hurt our allies.""We're playing a limited -- limited -- but important role in defending American national security and American interests against terrorists who would like nothing more than for the most powerful force for good in the world to simply pick up our ball and go home," he said in a speech from the Senate floor."There's no American who does not wish the war in Afghanistan against terrorists and their enablers had already been conclusively won," he said. "But that does not change the actual choice before us now. A rapid withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan now would hurt our allies and delight -- delight -- the people who wish us harm."The decision to pull additional troops out of Iraq comes as the Trump administration has moved to reduce the US military's footprint there in recent months.The US commander in the Middle East announced a drawdown of US troops in Iraq from 5,200 to 3,000 in September.  In March, US forces began pulling back from bases across Iraq, turning them over to Iraqi security partners. At the time, Pentagon officials insisted that the base hand-offs were part of a long-planned consolidation that reflected the success of the anti-ISIS fight -- not concerns over the ongoing rocket attacks by Iran-linked proxy militias.Sweeping changes at the Pentagon US military officials have long stressed that the US withdrawal from Afghanistan should be conditions based, including the Taliban breaking its ties to al Qaeda and making progress in peace talks with the Afghan government, two conditions that have yet to be met.But despite the lack of progress, the Trump administration has already substantially reduced US troops in the country by more than 50%, recently bringing the number of US military personnel there down to about 4,500, the lowest levels since the earliest days of the post 9/11 campaign.Trump made bringing American troops home a theme of his reelection campaign but the future of US forces in Afghanistan has remained uncertain amid the mixed messages coming from the administration. National security adviser Robert O'Brien has advocated for a more accelerated withdrawal from Afghanistan irrespective of conditions on the ground, something made more feasible by the installation of White House loyalists in senior defense posts.Milley had pushed back on an earlier announcement from O'Brien suggesting an aggressive timeline for troop withdrawals that appeared to be irrespective of conditions."Robert O'Brien, or anyone else, can speculate as they see fit, I am not going to engage in speculation, I'm going to engage in the rigorous analysis of the situation based on the conditions and the plans that I'm aware of in my conversations with the President," Milley told NPR on October 11.Sweeping changes at the Pentagon last week have put Trump loyalists in place and knowledgeable sources told CNN's Jake Tapper last week that the White House-directed purge at the Defense Department may have been motivated by the fact that former Secretary of Defense Mark Esper and his team were pushing back on a premature withdrawal from Afghanistan that would be carried out before the required conditions on the ground were met.Those changes included installing an ardent opponent of the US military's presence in Afghanistan, who once called for the use of lethal force against illegal immigrants and has made a litany of racist comments, as a senior adviser at the Pentagon.A Pentagon spokesman confirmed Wednesday that retired Army Col. Douglas Macgregor "will be serving as a Senior Advisor to the Acting Secretary of Defense. Mr. MacGregor's decades of military experience will be used to assist in the continued implementation of the President's national security priorities."Macgregor has been a vocal opponent of the US military's mission in Afghanistan and has called for a total withdrawal of US troops and the American Embassy despite the continued presence of terrorist groups there.Republican Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky who is a strong advocate of withdrawing US troops welcomed the appointment."I am very pleased @realDonaldTrump asked my friend Col. Doug Macgregor to help quickly end the war in Afghanistan. This and other picks for Pentagon are about getting the right people who will finally help him stop our endless wars," Paul tweeted.Trump also fired Defense Secretary Mark Esper last week in a tweet, replacing him with Christopher Miller, the director of the National Counterterrorism Center.In one of his first moves as acting Defense Secretary, Miller sent a seemingly contradictory message to the force on Friday, saying the US must continue its battle against al Qaeda and the terrorist forces behind 9/11 while also saying it was time to bring troops home."This war isn't over," Miller wrote in his message. "We are on the verge of defeating al Qaida and it's associates, but we must avoid our past strategic error of failing to see the fight through to the finish.""Indeed, this fight has been long, our sacrifices have been enormous, and many are weary of war -- I'm one of them -- but this is the critical phase in which we transition our efforts from a leadership to supporting role," he wrote in reference to the current US role of supporting counterterrorism campaigns such as the one in Afghanistan."All wars must end. Ending wars requires compromise and partnership. We met the challenge; we gave it our all. Now, it's time to come home," Miller added.State Department officials unaware of Pentagon orderO'Brien and US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad are expected to discuss the troop drawdown plans during a meeting Monday, two State Department officials told CNN. State Department officials knew it was possible Trump could order an additional troop drawdown in Afghanistan but did not know that the Pentagon had sent this warning order, two State Department officials said.Some State Department officials believed that because Trump did not order further troop withdraws before the election it was unlikely that there would be more during the rest of his administration.But last month Khalilizad said the conditions will dictate further withdrawals."If conditions are right, we are committed to withdrawing. But if the conditions are not right, we don't have to withdraw," Khalilizad said in an NPR interview at the time.This story has been updated with additional reporting Monday.(CNN) - Top Senate Republicans seemed unmoved Monday by President Donald Trump's baseless charges that the election was "rigged" and his false assertions that he actually won the election, even though the results show he lost the race despite his efforts to sow distrust over a cornerstone of US democracy.As Democrats reacted with alarm to Trump's weekend Twitter rants, Republicans shrugged it off."He can say whatever he wants," said Sen. Deb Fischer, a Nebraska Republican who advises Senate GOP leadership.Asked if she were bothered by Trump's comments, Fischer said: "If I was bothered by everything that everyone around here says, I couldn't come back."While a growing number of Republicans say that the formal transition process should begin, that Biden should get classified intelligence briefings and are skeptical that Trump's legal challenges will succeed, few are willing to challenge Trump's lies that the election was stolen from him, an allegation rejected by GOP and Democratic election officials across the country.The indifference marks a familiar pattern through four years of Trump's presidency: He stokes a major controversy, and Republicans on Capitol Hill largely ignore it. But this time, Trump is launching one conspiracy theory after another that many fear could sow unrest and have lasting ramifications on trust in US elections and faith in democracy.Sen. Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican who chairs the Senate Rules Committee, which oversees elections, downplayed Trump's claims that the election was rigged. "I'm not overly concerned," he said.Asked if he thinks Trump won the election, Blunt said: "There's a process for that. We are about at the end of the time period where you can make your case in court. Let's let him do that."Iowa Sen. Chuck Grassley, the most senior Senate Republican who supports Biden getting classified briefings, downplayed Trump's false claims that he won the election and baseless charges that the election was rigged.Asked Monday if Trump should be making such comments, Grassley said: "All that'll be settled by December the 14th," referring to when electors meet in their state capitals to cast their ballots."There's no sense worrying about anything else except just the number of electors, and whoever got 270 electors is going to be the next president," he said.Even as they back up the President, many are skeptical his claims will hold up in court.Asked if the elections were rigged, as Trump said, Republican Sen. John Cornyn, who won his race in Texas this month, said: "I don't know if he's referring to a specific incident or generally."Cornyn seemed to think that Trump's claims of fraud won't change the election: "I haven't seen anything that would change the outcome."Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who has said that Trump is within his legal rights to challenge the election, sought to reassure the public last week that the transition would not be interrupted. But on Monday, McConnell was silent when asked if he agrees with Trump's false claims that he "won the election."Some of Trump's staunchest defenders also had no objection to the President's claims.Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said Monday that he has no concerns that Trump is sowing doubt in the democratic process, arguing it's "fair game" for him to claim victory because "we don't know yet" who won, despite election results clearly showing Biden on track for an Electoral College victory."I'm not concerned about the President saying that he thinks he won the election," Hawley said. "I think that's totally fair game. He can go out and make his argument."Others avoided getting pinned down on the subject.Sen. John Barrasso, a Wyoming Republican and member of GOP leadership, wouldn't say if he agrees with Trump that the election was "rigged." "There have been a number of tweets that have been back and forth, so I'm not sure what the most recent one was," Barrasso said.This story has been updated with additional responses Monday.(CNN) - There is sorely needed good news on the vaccine front: A second US vaccine has been found to have a high success rate against Covid-19. Moderna announced on Monday that its vaccine was 94.5% effective against coronavirus, according to early data. Vaccinations could begin in the United States in the second half of December, starting with high-risk groups and becoming available for the rest of the population in spring, according to Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.Here are some answers to common questions about the coronavirus vaccines being developed to prevent Covid-19.Don't vaccines take years to develop safely? How have these two been developed in just 10 months?Most vaccines in use today have taken years and, in some cases, decades to develop, but governments have poured huge amounts of money into companies and institutions developing vaccines, with initiatives like Operation Warp Speed in the United States and the Vaccine Taskforce in the United Kingdom. The pandemic has galvanized the scientific community all around the world, with groups of researchers in dozens of countries on a fast-paced hunt to understand how the virus works. Operation Warp Speed has also drawn up protocols to allow trials to proceed more quickly, and industrial-scale manufacturing of the vaccines has taken place before we knew whether they would be effective. This means we have millions of doses ready to be used.  How effective is this vaccine?The vaccine developed by Pfizer, which announced its early successful results last week, and Moderna's are both more than 90% effective, according to the early data, a higher rate than many vaccines for other diseases. However, the results are extremely preliminary and aren't what health authorities will use to authorize vaccines.In Moderna's trial, 15,000 study participants were given a placebo, which is a shot of saline that has no effect. Over several months, 90 of those people developed Covid-19. Another 15,000 participants were given the vaccine, and five of them developed Covid-19. Among those receiving a placebo, 11 became severely ill, but none of the participants who received the vaccine became severely ill. The head of the International Vaccine Institute has hailed biotech company Moderna's early data on its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, saying it is "proof of concept," but cautioned that it's still early days in terms of follow-up efficacy."I think it's really great news and in a way confirmation that the RNA vaccines are able to protect against infectious disease and it is also a good example again that Covid vaccines are a possibility," Dr. Jerome Kim, the institute's director general, told CNN on Monday.   "It will be really important to know what efficacy is - not at two months, but at six and twelve,"  Kim said.There are still lots of unknowns about how the new coronavirus vaccines would work in practice. It's not clear whether they would prevent infection altogether or make severe illness less likely. Doctors also do not know how long their protection will last.However, Fauci described it "as good as it gets." He had said previously he would settle for a vaccine that was 70% to 75% effective.Vaccines have various efficacy rates. According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a full round of polio vaccines is 99% to 100% effective; full vaccination against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis is 80% to 90% effective, while the efficacy of flu vaccine varies from year to year.How safe are the vaccines, and are there any side effects?Moderna said its vaccine did not have any significant side effects. A small percentage of those who received it experienced symptoms such as body aches and headaches.  It's similar to what people might experience after a flu shot and is a sign the vaccine is working to create an immune defense."They report no safety concerns - the main side effects are injection site pain, fatigue, muscle or joint aches and pains and headache which seemed to occur more frequently after the second injection," Dr. Penny Ward, a visiting professor in pharmaceutical medicine at King's College London, told the SMC. "Clearly we still need to see the complete scientific details in a publication to be able to judge the outcomes independently."After a vaccine is approved for emergency use authorization in the US, the CDC will continue to monitor side effects and assess whether any are a safety concern that warrants a change in recommendation. How do these vaccines work? I'm worried they sound experimental.Vaccines typically mimic part of the virus they protect against, prompting a response from your immune system.The vaccines from Moderna and Pfizer both use a new approach that hasn't resulted in an approved vaccine before -- although they have been studied in clinical trials for other viruses.The two vaccines use genetic code rather than any part of the virus itself, with a technique called messenger RNA, or mRNA. The vaccines deliver mRNA, which is a genetic recipe. In this case, the genetic recipe directs cells to make pieces of the spikes that sit atop the coronavirus. Once it's injected, the body's immune system makes antibodies that recognize these spikes. If a vaccinated person is later exposed to the coronavirus, those antibodies should stand at the ready to attack the virus.The fact that Moderna and Pfizer have independently produced very similar results using the same technique is a vote of confidence in the genetic technology, experts said, and their results could make it much easier and quicker to produce other vaccines."Using this technology, vaccine candidates can be produced substantially faster in the future to combat virtually any infectious disease, by producing vaccines against both existing pathogens and future, currently unknown pathogens," Zoltán Kis, research associate at the Future Vaccine Manufacturing Hub, Imperial College London, told the SMC.Other companies are developing vaccines using other techniques  -- the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine is made from a harmless modified chimpanzee virus, while the traditional route is to use the inactivated virus. Sign me up! When can I get it?While Fauci said he expects the first Covid-19 vaccinations to begin toward the latter part of December, initially there won't be enough vaccine for everyone. The highest-priority groups, which include health care workers, the elderly and people with underlying medical conditions, will get the vaccine first."I think that everybody else will start to get vaccinated towards the end of April," Fauci said. "And that will go into May, June, July. It will take a couple of months to do."The British government has asked the National Health Service, known as NHS, to be ready to deploy a vaccine from the beginning of December.What if I'm old, pregnant or clinically vulnerable?Among the 30,000 participants in the Moderna trial, more than 7,000 Americans were over the age of 65, the company said. It also included more than 5,000 Americans who are under the age of 65 but who have high-risk chronic diseases that put them at increased risk of severe Covid-19, such as diabetes, severe obesity and cardiac disease.The study also includes more than 11,000 participants from communities of color, representing 37% of the study population, which Moderna said was similar to the diversity of the US population. This includes more than 6,000 participants who identify as Hispanic or Latinx, and more than 3,000 participants who identify as Black or African American.Noubar Afeyan, the co-founder and chairman of Moderna, said the company doesn't see "any difference in the results," among the subgroups in its Covid-19 vaccine trials."Moderna actually slightly slowed down the trial recruitment to ensure that we had a substantial representation, and it turns out, 37% of our trials were people, were subjects, that are considered of color," Afeyan said on CNN International Monday."Generally, it looks like the vaccine performs broadly across all the population groups," Afeyan said.However, we don't know anything about groups not involved in the trial such as children or pregnant women."Urgent questions remain to be answered, including how long these vaccines will be effective for and whether these vaccines work across different populations, in all age groups, ethnicities, and those with prior health conditions," said Charlie Weller, head of vaccines at medical research charity Wellcome."Only upon trial completion will we be able to assess the full efficacy and safety of any vaccine candidate." Will the vaccines be compulsory? What happens if I decide not to get vaccinated?Some people will see it as their patriotic duty to get vaccinated, but others may not. The UK has said it won't make it compulsory, and Fauci has said that getting the vaccine likely won't be mandatory.If you decide against getting a vaccination, it does have wider implications. Not only will you not have protection against Covid-19, but it could potentially make it harder to achieve community, or herd, immunity. This protects high-risk groups that might not be able to get the vaccination.It is estimated that a Covid-19 vaccine will need to be accepted by at least 55% of the population to provide community immunity, according to the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, and some scientists anticipate even higher numbers will be needed.(CNN) - Hurricane Iota has barreled into a Central America still recovering from Eta, and is bringing with it the possibility of "life-threatening" flooding, catastrophic winds and mudslides.Swells from the storm will be felt from Central America to the Yucatán Peninsula, as far east as Jamaica and as far south as Colombia, but its landfall was just 15 miles south of where Hurricane Eta struck, potentially leaving the region scarred for generations. The storm reached Category 5 strength, but made landfall near the town of Haulover, Nicaragua, at 10:40 p.m. EST as a Category 4, with maximum sustained winds near 155 mph, according to the National Hurricane Center. It has since weakened to winds near 130 mph.Those in the area have begun to withstand heavy rainfall from the storm, with Honduras and Nicaragua expecting maximum totals of 30 inches of rain through Thursday, while El Salvador to Panama can expect 6 to 10, with isolated maximums of 15 inches. River and flash flooding may soon follow along with dangerous storm surge that is likely to bring water levels up by as much as 10 to 15 feet, the National Hurricane Center said in a 1 a.m. alert.The predicted storm surge along the coasts of Nicaragua and Honduras will be accompanied by "large and destructive waves," along with swells that cause "life-threatening surf and rip current conditions," according to the advisory.Hurricane warnings are in effect for the coast of Nicaragua from its border with Honduras to Sandy Bay Sirpi, as well as the coast of northeastern Honduras, the NHC said. Tropical storm warnings are also in place for Providencia, San Andreas and Bay Islands.Though the storm struck Central America with devastating impact, it is expected to weaken after landfall and then dissipate over the region by Wednesday night.Colombian Islands feel the first impactsBefore reaching Nicaragua, the hurricane became the first of its strength to strike the Colombian Islands of San Andres and Providencia in recorded history, Colombia President Ivan Duque said Monday. San Andres and Providencia have been part of Colombia for centuries but are geographically closer to Central America than to the Colombian mainland.Duque said Monday at least one person is dead on Providencia and 90% of the island's infrastructure has been affected by Iota. The local airport is also unusable because of debris, Duque said."It's the first time that a Category 5 Hurricane has reached our territory since records began," Duque said during a national news conference from the Colombian capital of Bogota. "We are facing an issue with characteristics never before witnessed by our country."A Navy boat was scheduled to depart Cartagena Monday night on its way to Providencia with supplies, Duque said.Central America still recovering from EtaIota will be the second major hurricane to hit the area in as many weeks. On November 3, Hurricane Eta made landfall as a Category 4 storm, causing landslides and flooding that displaced thousands and left scores of people dead or missing.It is the 13th hurricane of the 2020 Atlantic hurricane season, which has left its mark as a historic season bringing 30 named storms -- the most ever. This is the latest in the year there has ever been a Category 5 hurricane in the Atlantic Basin, according to the hurricane center.More than 3.6 million people across Central America have been affected by the storm to varying degrees, the Red Cross said earlier this week.While the full extent of the damage from Eta won't be known for a while, the powerful storm, combined with the coronavirus pandemic, may have effects that last for years.The storm hovered for days over Nicaragua, Honduras and Guatemala, with heavy rains creating flooding and landslides that wiped entire communities off the map.Dozens of people in the remote Guatemalan village of San Cristobal remain missing after a landslide swept through last week, leaving mud 50 feet deep in some places. New York  (CNN Business) - The housing market is booming. That's great news for Home Depot -- and its workers. Home Depot reported better-than-expected sales and earnings Tuesday, and the company is planning to invest $1 billion annually on increased worker benefits. That's on top of the $1.7 billion in benefits the company has already granted this year in response to Covid-19.Home Depot unveiled temporary programs during the coronavirus pandemic such as expanded paid time off and weekly bonuses. But the company has decided to give hourly workers a permanent pay increase as the housing market continues to thrive.Sales at stores that have been open for at least one year surged 24% in the third quarter. And Home Depot reported a net profit of $3.4 billion, an increase of more than 20% from a year ago."[T]he investments we have made in the business as well as our associates' focus on customers...are critical in enabling market share growth in any economic environment," CEO Craig Menear said in the company's earnings release.Shares of Home Depot fell 3% in early trading Tuesday following the news, but the stock is up nearly 25% this year.Home Depot is thriving during the pandemic as many consumers focus on home improvements at a time when they may be less willing (or able) to spend on leisure activities such as dining out or taking a family trip."Spending on the home continues to be a priority," Neil Saunders, managing director of retail research firm GlobalData, said in a report. "Savings from lower outlays on commuting, eating out and not taking vacations have given consumers a pool of cash which they have diverted into home projects and activities," Saunders said. "Improvement continues to be at the forefront of spending." Home Depot chief financial officer Richard McPhail echoed that sentiment during a conference call with analysts Tuesday."We are encouraged by consumer sentiment and consumption trends, which show home improvement receiving more than its historical share of consumer spending," he said. "Housing metrics are significantly stronger than when we entered this crisis."  Home Depot's results come one day after the company announced plans to buy back HD Supply, a former subsidiary that focuses on selling construction materials to homebuilders, apartment managers and the hospitality industry, for more than $8 billion.Home Depot sold the business to private equity firms in 2007, and there had been recent chatter that Home Depot rival Lowe's, which will report its latest results Wednesday, was interested in purchasing HD Supply.  Moscow  (CNN) - The limbs of a lifeless body hang off a stretcher in a hospital ward as coronavirus patients battle for their lives just a few feet away. An elderly woman gasps for breath, her desperate panting a grim soundtrack to one of many disturbing cell-phone videos emerging from hospitals across Russia."This is how our nights look: horrifying," says a male voice narrating the footage, given to CNN by a prominent opposition-linked Russian doctors' union, "Doctors' Alliance," which says it was recorded in mid-October by a hospital staff member in Ulyanovsk, a city around 500 miles east of Moscow."Two more down in our ward," he says, while filming a corpse. "This is how Covid-19 is killing everybody."    This grisly video is just one of several obtained by CNN that reveal appalling conditions inside overcrowded facilities. Some footage shows morgues with bodies, stripped naked, piled on top of each other on grimy floors, in scenes that look like war zones more than hospitals. As Russia struggles to get the pandemic under control, the videos are one of several signs pointing to an actual death toll far higher than official figures suggest.     Russia says as of November 16 more than 33,000 people have died of Covid-19. But that number is disputed by critics who say the Kremlin is underreporting the numbers."I think the real figure is [around] 130,000 people," said Alexey Raksha, a former government statistician who has made his estimates based on official data on excess deaths -- the number of fatalities above what would normally be expected -- to assess the toll of the pandemic.      Using data from local registries, Raksha estimates that Russia reached around 160,000-170,000 excess deaths from April to November. He attributes around 80% of these fatalities to Covid-19 -- an average number aggregated from similar statistics published by Western countries.     Between April and September 2020, Russia's official excess mortality figure was roughly 117,000 more deaths, compared to last year, according to Rosstat, the Russian statistics agency. The official Covid-19 death toll for that period is roughly 21,000 people.There is no Rosstat data available yet for October and November, but judging by official tallies released by the country's coronavirus response center, the spread of the pandemic has accelerated rapidly.  Raksha says he quit Rosstat in July after being publicly vocal about the way the agency counts coronavirus-related deaths. He says that the discrepancy between the official figures and his calculations is due to the way that Russia classifies its Covid casualties.     Rosstat uses a four-tier classification system, he explains. According to the agency's website, they are: 1. the patient testing positive for Covid-19 before death; 2.when Covid-19 is presumed to be main cause of death but would need to be confirmed by autopsy or further research; 3. when the virus contributed to death in those with underlying conditions; 4. when Covid-19 is confirmed but not deemed a major factor in the death."Only the first tier of victim, when the patient has tested positive for coronavirus before dying, is recorded as a Covid-19 death," Raksha told CNN. According to Raksha, deaths in all three other tiers are left out of the official figures.  Neither the Russian health ministry, the public health watchdog Rospotrebnadzor, nor Rosstat have responded to CNN's requests for comment.   This counting method differs from World Health Organization guidelines, which states that all deaths related to Covid-19 should be counted unless there is "a clear alternative cause that cannot be related" to the disease.As it battles the pandemic, however, Russia still knows how to put on a good show. In August, amid much fanfare, it became the first country to register a coronavirus vaccine, Sputnik V, even before crucial Phase 3 trials had started. That vaccine, which was met with skepticism by outside scientists, has not yet been widely administered.  CNN was also granted rare access to a 1,300-bed state-of-the-art temporary coronavirus hospital in Moscow, set up in what was a world championship ice-skating stadium, called the "Ice Palace.""The crisis is complicated but manageable," the chief doctor, Andrey Shkoda, told CNN as he gave us a tour. "We have all the necessary diagnostic equipment here, ultrasound, anesthesia and ventilators."Looming above, a gigantic screen that usually broadcasts skating or ice-hockey scores to the crowd is now used to show movies to patients as they undergo treatment. The chief doctor said the hospital is fully digital; every patient is assigned a bracelet with a QR code which links to all their healthcare records."This is standard care," he told CNN, across Moscow and beyond.Yet this rosy picture of a country in full control of the pandemic, with a network of spacious medical facilities, seems increasingly at odds with the graphic footage emerging from hospitals, a deeper examination of the official statistics and the testimony of some medical workers.Last month, the Russian government admitted a growing strain on its medical facilities, with Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova saying hospital beds in five of the worst affected regions were already at more than 95% capacity.One ambulance driver in the Saratov region of southwest Russia -- who spoke to CNN on condition of anonymity due to fear of repercussions at work -- said the situation in his hospital is "a mess."  "Doctors even refuse to admit elderly patients with breathing difficulties," he said. "They tell them there's no need to hospitalize them. But the real reason is there are not enough places on the ward."And in another video given to CNN, filmed in an overloaded morgue, a male voice speaks over the gruesome images: "We could hardly find any place here. It's like a horror film."Editor's Note: David M. Perry is a journalist and historian. He is senior academic adviser in the history department of the University of Minnesota. Follow him on Twitter. The views expressed here are those of the author. View more opinion articles on CNN.(CNN) - Last Monday night we got the call we've been dreading. The assistant principal told me over the phone that our son, a 13-year-old autistic boy with Down syndrome, had been exposed to Covid-19 the previous week by "someone who works closely with him" in his special education classroom. My wife soon developed symptoms and tested positive, my son's been running a low fever all week and I've had a weird dry cough. Covid has come to our home. Since early in the pandemic, pundits and epidemiologists have been debating the extent to which children are themselves at risk for getting sick from the virus, are vectors to spread the virus to more vulnerable populations and whether the costs (psychological, educational, and economic) of keeping schools closed are worth it. As the pandemic intensifies, with over a million confirmed cases in the last week in the US and more to come,  it's clear that no amount of magical thinking will protect our children or the adults with whom kids come into contact.  At the same time, keeping schools closed is brutal and even dangerous for so many children and their families, wreaking havoc on working parents and intensifying educational inequality.Our state department of education, after months of lobbying, issued guidance two days before the school year started that gave school districts permission to pay for aides to work with children like our son in the home, but they didn't mandate it and our district has repeatedly declined to do so. Our son is legally entitled under federal law to a "free and appropriate public education," but was only offered one if we placed him at higher risk of Covid by sending him to school, and we made the hard choice. Maybe it was the wrong choice. No one should have to make this choice, but parents all over the country are being squeezed between bad options. Teachers and other school employees, likewise, have to choose between safety and their jobs. We don't blame anyone who works with our son; the whole situation is untenable.Fortunately, there's another path to take going forward. We know more lockdowns are coming, but this time, we could prioritize children over bars, restaurants, working out, sports and socializing in our homes. It's time to keep schools and daycares open -- and shut almost everything else down. A number of states have taken recent steps to curb the explosive and renewed spread of the novel coronavirus, but not all mitigation efforts are created equal. In my own state of Minnesota, as well as New York, the Democratic governors have issued new restrictions on social gatherings and entertainment, but they seem woefully inadequate. Both states are closing bars and restaurants after 10 p.m., as if the virus only comes out late at night. New Yorkers can still pant and sweat in public gyms until that hour. In Minnesota, Gov. Tim Walz is banning social gatherings of "members of more than 3 households," which is two households too many. In contrast, on Sunday night, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee took the kind of drastic measures that the current surge requires. He simply closed indoor service and entertainments, limited outdoor capacity to parties of five or fewer, and perhaps most critically, banned multi-household gatherings unless all participants have tested negative and spent a week in quarantine first. It's understandable that governors are hesitant to impose more drastic restrictions on businesses or on households as the holidays approach. People are struggling economically and there's no relief bill to cushion the blow, though perhaps one is in the works (as a reminder: The House passed a relief bill in May; the Senate has yet to bring one to the floor for a vote), but as the pandemic gets worse and worse, shutdowns will follow. The question is this time, will we exit the shutdown in ways that prioritizes education over lifting weights and public consumption of food and liquor?  The more stringent lockdowns imposed by Inslee are unusual in the United States, but are exactly the kind of strict approach mandated by other countries last spring that successfully knocked infection rates back. In Europe, as relaxed restrictions have resulted in renewed spread of the virus, moderate lockdowns have not helped. Ireland therefore has announced a severe lockdown for at least six weeks in order to get control. Half measures won't cut it. There's good news. Vaccines are coming and there's hope  that by next August we might be in a different place, somewhere back near normal, when my son starts his freshman year of high school. But we haven't had normal school since March and the education gaps are beginning to show. We ultimately have to choose: bars and gyms or schools and daycares?  Choose wisely. London  (CNN) - The coronavirus has found its way to Boris Johnson for the second time in a year. The British Prime Minister, who overcame a serious brush with the virus earlier this year, is self-quarantining again after he came in close contact at Downing Street with a lawmaker who subsequently tested positive. That the Prime Minister's official residence has once again become the location of a coronavirus outbreak has raised serious questions not just about how the UK government is handling the pandemic in the country, but how it's dealing with the risk inside its own buildings. This time, Johnson's forced quarantine stemmed from an event attended by lawmakers on Thursday. Photos show Johnson standing unmasked and within two meters of several of these Members of Parliament, including Lee Anderson, who later tested positive for Covid-19. Others who attended the meeting have since confirmed that they too are self-quarantining, including two of the Prime Minister's political aides.   The building that hosted the gathering, 10 Downing Street, is not just the official home of the Prime Minister, but a place of work for hundreds more officials and advisers. It is a mixture of grand reception rooms and meeting rooms, where the Prime Minister hosts events and holds political meetings, and cramped, narrow corridors with leading to poorly ventilated offices where civil servants, political advisers and other support staff work.   Government staff have described to CNN their concerns at working in these conditions during a global pandemic, suggesting that in such cramped conditions, social distancing is nigh on impossible. One Downing Street insider explained that while the building had been made Covid secure by imposing measures such as one-way systems for the narrow corridors, in practice it is as hard to avoid people in the office space as ever before.At the earlier stages of the pandemic, several staff working inside government buildings told CNN that they were concerned the inner circle of Johnson were acting as though they believed the virus would never make it as far as the heart of government, and that they were somehow invincible. These fears were exacerbated by incidents like Johnson saying publicly on March 3 that while visiting a hospital where he believed there were Covid patients he "shook hands with everybody."   While no one can say exactly how Johnson caught the virus earlier this year, many have pointed to an event at Downing Street on March 5, attended by one of his health ministers, who tested positive for coronavirus the following week. Johnson tested positive and began his first period of self-quarantine on March 27.    Johnson's first brush with the virus was, by his own admission, near fatal. The Prime Minister was forced into an intensive care unit after his condition declined rapidly through April. So severe was his illness that Johnson and his fiancé Carrie Symonds gave their son, born shortly after Johnson's time in hospital, the middle name "Nick", in tribute to two of the doctors who "saved Boris' life."   Despite Johnson's horrific personal experience, worker unions representing civil servants fear that the perceived complacency they identified at the start of the pandemic is returning to Johnson's government and placing staff at risk.   On Tuesday morning, a spokesperson for the Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS) confirmed to CNN that it will be balloting members working at the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) on possible strike action next month. Their complaint is that the department has insufficiently wound down its operations, meaning support staff are being forced to work in unsafe conditions.   Mark Serwotka, PCS general secretary, said: "Most civil servants are working well from home and there should be no need for our support staff to continue to put themselves in harm's way at BEIS." A PCS spokesperson added that their members have "serious doubts as to the competency levels of ministers when it comes to following Covid safety measures."  The government defended Johnson's meeting with MPs and insisted that safety protocols were being followed at government buildings. "Number 10 and government departments have been made Covid-secure workplaces and every step is taken to minimize the risk of infection," a government spokesperson said Tuesday.  But it's undeniable that Johnson and his government have been widely criticized for their handling of the virus. Some believe that at the start of the pandemic, Johnson failed to grasp the detail and was too slow to act in a range of areas including lockdowns, building testing capacity and procuring essential protective and medical equipment.   Others say the government has been too in thrall to the scientists and is imposing restrictions in ways that are doing serious long-term damage to the economy, which in turn will be more harmful to the UK than the virus itself.   Whichever way you slice it, the UK has the highest deaths of any country in Europe and has suffered the worst downturn of any major economy, making it very hard to argue that something hasn't gone badly wrong.   One of the main difficulties that Johnson faces is that the early consensus as to the best response to the coronavirus has fallen apart. In particular, his own party is bitterly divided. Any suggestion of fresh lockdown restrictions and he's accused of cowering to science and wrecking the economy. Any attempts to urge for calm and business-as-usual and he's behaving recklessly with the nation's health. Even as he sits alone in his office, Johnson is being privately criticized in some corners of Westminster for continuing his quarantine and impeding his ability to lead, despite testing negative.   Similarly, if Johnson were to end his quarantine early, he would be vulnerable to accusations of ignoring his own public health advice. He would also leave himself open to comparisons with Donald Trump, who has hosted super-spreader events in the White House and has consistently downplayed the threat the virus poses, despite being hospitalized by it himself. It is not a comparison that any politician in the UK would enjoy, given Trump's unpopularity.  All of which leaves Johnson locked up for two weeks, damned whatever he does with few avenues of sympathy -- even among his own party who think he's bungling the Covid challenge in myriad ways. And the only person he has to blame for this impossible position, many in Westminster whisper, is himself.   (CNN) - Jen O'Malley Dillon will join President-elect Joe Biden's incoming administration as a deputy chief of staff, the Biden-Harris transition team announced Tuesday. O'Malley Dillon was Biden's campaign manager, joining his team in March after he consolidated support among most of his primary rivals. She helped transform a shoestring primary organization, which struggled to raise money, into a general election juggernaut that ultimately made Donald Trump a one-term president. She was the first woman to lead a winning Democratic presidential race.The Biden-Harris transition team announced several White House senior staff on Tuesday along with O'Malley Dillon, including Mike Donilon, chief strategist for the Biden campaign, Steve Ricchetti, co-chairman of the Biden campaign, Dana Remus, general counsel to the Biden campaign, Julie Rodriguez, deputy campaign manager on the Biden campaign and Annie Tomasini, Biden's traveling chief of staff. O'Malley Dillon has long told friends that she had no interest in working in the West Wing after the campaign, but after working in top jobs on numerous political campaigns -- including former Rep. Beto O'Rourke's failed 2020 primary campaign and both of Barack Obama's presidential campaigns -- the Democratic operative has never served in the White House.That historical pull, said a person familiar with her decision, proved too much to turn down. She has held a number of top jobs within the universe of Democratic organizations, including executive director of the Democratic National Committee and the founding partner at Precision Strategies, a Democratic consulting firm.NBC news was first to report that O'Malley Dillon was expected to join the White House. This story was updated with the official announcement on Tuesday. (CNN) - President Donald Trump's refusal to coordinate with President-elect Joe Biden on the critical Covid-19 vaccine is bringing a staggering possibility into clearer view: that an outgoing US commander in chief is actively working to sabotage his successor.Trump's denial of his election defeat, his lies about nonexistent mass coordinated voter fraud and his strangling of the rituals of transferring power between administrations are not just democracy-damaging aberrations.Given the current national emergency, they threaten to cause practical fallout that could damage Biden's incoming White House not just in a political sense. There are increasing concerns that Trump's obstruction will slow and complicate the delivery of the vaccine that brings the tantalizing prospect of a return to normal life amid stunning news from trials showing doses are effective in stopping more than 90% of coronavirus infections.CNN's 2020 election resultsThe distribution operation will be a massively complex and historic public vaccination effort targeting hundreds of millions of Americans -- many millions of whom have resisted following basic safety protocols like wearing masks because Trump has encouraged them not to. The inoculation campaign will require a high level of public trust and will involve sharp ethical debates among officials about who should get the vaccine first. The entire program could be damaged if it is politicized. But unless something changes, the Biden team may face the task of tackling those issues afresh, in a frantic catch-up operation. It's not just on the vaccine where Trump is threatening the success of the next administration. Attacks by the President and aides on governors stepping into his leadership vacuum as the pandemic rips across all 50 states mean the situation Biden will inherit will be worse than it needed to be.The victims of this neglect will be thousands of Americans whom health experts expect to die or get sick in the absence of a coordinated national response to the winter spike in infections and workers caught up in new restrictions imposed on business by local leaders trying to get the virus under control -- as well as the millions of schoolchildren who are already falling behind while classrooms remain shuttered."More people may die if we don't coordinate," Biden warned bluntly on Monday, stepping up his pressure for Trump to recognize his defeat in the election and impending exit from office.Unlike Trump, who is wallowing in his sense of personal grievance and fury at what he sees as a humiliating loss, Biden does have a sense of urgency and new proposals, and he is calling for a coordinated national effort to mitigate the harrowing impact of the nationwide spike in infections. But while he has the moral standing of an election win, he has no power to implement his plans until Inauguration Day on January 20.CNN reported on Monday that Trump has no intention of abandoning his false attacks on the election to initiate an orderly transition process or to accept that Biden is the rightful next president.Instead, his legal challenges, which have made little headway in the courts, seem expressly aimed at boosting conspiracy theories among his supporters and preserving his hold on the Republican Party, and ultimately to cast Biden's tenure as illegitimate. The failure of many GOP leaders in Washington, who remain hostage to Trump's political base, to unequivocally refer to Biden as President-elect or to rebuke Trump for his undemocratic conduct are only further undermining the next administration.Two weeks after the election, it remains surreal and extraordinary that the President is refusing to accept Biden's victory, which matched the 306 Electoral College votes that he himself stacked up in 2016. That he would act in such a way in the middle of a grave national crisis, with 246,000 Americans already dead from Covid-19 and millions out of work, is an even more revealing glimpse into the mind of a President who has consistently prioritized his own goals and gratification over a traditional view of the national interest.Transition tension is a change from recent yearsIt is not unusual for there to be animosity between outgoing and incoming administrations, especially when a president has been ejected from office. The transition from President Herbert Hoover to President-elect Franklin Roosevelt in 1932-33 -- in the middle of another crisis, the Great Depression -- was notoriously prickly.Many White House teams have used their rule-making power to frustrate the policy-making goals of administrations of the opposite party. Trump is already taking things a step further. Military commanders expect orders in the coming days from the commander in chief to begin significant drawdowns in Iraq and Afghanistan to be completed by January 15, CNN's Barbara Starr reported on Monday. If there are consequences from such a move -- like a collapse of the Afghan government under a Taliban resurgence -- it will be up to Biden to deal with the fallout. There are also expectations that the President will take steps in foreign policy, including stiffened tariffs on China or strengthened sanctions on Iran, that will further trim the next White House's negotiating room.The New York Times reported Monday that the President sought options to strike Iran after his "maximum pressure" policy failed to rein in its nuclear program. Such action would make it almost impossible for Biden to revive the Obama administration's agreement with Tehran and international powers. But the report said advisers had dissuaded Trump from triggering attacks that could spark a wider conflict and undercut one of his proudest legacy achievements: avoiding new Middle East wars.And in another apparent attempt to complicate the next administration's quest to lessen America's dependence on fossil fuels, the White House on Monday solicited tenders for oil and gas drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.Another departure from normsIn recent years, presidents of both parties have prioritized a peaceful and effective transfer of power over personal political pique, recognizing their duty to secure the health, security and welfare of the American people.Warm letters of welcome left in the Oval Office desk -- for instance, from President George H.W. Bush to Bill Clinton -- have become the norm. George W. Bush's team showed deference to incoming President Barack Obama during the 2008 financial crisis. The 44th President then ordered his team to make life as easy as possible for Trump's incoming White House -- a fact Michelle Obama recalled in a tartly worded Instagram post Monday: "I was hurt and disappointed -- but the votes had been counted and Donald Trump had won. ... My husband and I instructed our staffs to do what George and Laura Bush had done for us: run a respectful, seamless transition of power -- one of the hallmarks of American democracy."So the current President's behavior, apparently motivated by fury over his defeat and a conspiratorial belief that the probe into his team's suspicious and multiple links to Russians was part of a plot to render his presidency illegitimate, is a stark departure from recent norms.Trump wants credit for the vaccineIronically, Trump's mood, characterized by wild tweets divorced from any factual anchor, is detracting from his administration's own undeniable achievement in shepherding the swift development of vaccines. Early data released Monday found that the Moderna vaccine currently in trials is 94.5% effective against the coronavirus. This followed news that Pfizer's vaccine was more than 90% effective. The news brought the prospect of a return to normal life and economic activity in 2021. One of Trump's few recent references to the worsening pandemic was a tweet on Monday in which he demanded that historians recognize his role in the vaccine breakthroughs.The President has ordered government agencies not to offer the traditional cooperation with the incoming administration or to allow the release of millions of dollars in funding, office space in agencies and briefings from government officials.Biden initially reacted with circumspection to the move, apparently eager not to further antagonize Trump as the President comes to terms with his dashed hopes of winning a second term. But increasingly, the President-elect is warning of the damage caused by the impasse and is highlighting the vaccine in particular."The sooner we have access to the administration's distribution plan, the sooner this transition would be smoothly moved forward," Biden said in Wilmington, Delaware, on Monday.While the nation's top infectious disease specialist, Dr. Anthony Fauci, has said the vaccine could begin to be administered to high-priority patients like health care workers and the elderly in December, it will likely be at least April until it is available to most Americans."Transitions are important, and if you don't have a smooth transition, you would not optimize whatever efforts you're doing right now," Fauci told CNN's Jim Sciutto on "Newsroom" Tuesday morning, comparing the task to a "relay race in which you're passing the baton and you don't want to slow down what you're doing, but you want the person to whom you're giving the baton to be running with it as opposed to stopping and starting all over again."Dr. Luciana Borio, a member of Biden's Covid-19 advisory board, told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on Monday night that obstruction from the administration on the vaccine could have a serious impact on its eventual distribution."It's very important to know what are the timelines for manufacturing the vaccines," Borio said. "This is not going to be easy; this is a complex task."But Oregon Democratic Gov. Kate Brown told CNN's Jake Tapper that during a call between state leaders and the White House coronavirus task force on Monday, Vice President Mike Pence made no mention of transferring responsibility for vaccine distribution. "The Vice President clearly articulated a strategy for distributing the vaccines across the country,"  Brown said. "But the conversation was extremely disingenuous when we have a new administration coming in in a matter of weeks. There was no conversation about what the hand-off was going to be and how they were going to ensure that the Biden-Harris administration would be fully prepared and ready to accept the baton."New York  (CNN Business) - "Fox News sucks! Fox News sucks! Fox News sucks!"Those words were chanted in the streets of Washington, DC, this past weekend -- not by hordes of angry liberals but by disenchanted supporters of President Donald Trump.For more than two decades, Fox News has conditioned its audience to distrust news that collides with its worldview or theirs. Inconvenient facts have been dismissed and blamed on the "liberal media" or the "deep state" or one of the many other boogeymen favored by the right at any particular time. But now that strategy could be catching up to the conservative cable channel, with rising competition from networks such as Newsmax and OAN, which have positioned themselves as Trumpier than Fox.Indeed, Fox finds itself in a precarious position. On one hand, the network needs to maintain a semblance of having a serious news operation and its news anchors have acknowledged the reality that Trump lost the election to Joe Biden. On the other hand, the acknowledgment of reality is angering Fox's audience, some members of which are refusing to accept the truth of the matter and rebelling when it is force-fed to them. And Trump, who is livid at Fox for calling Arizona for Biden on Election Night and for not supporting him as slavishly as he would like, has been encouraging those viewers to change the channel and tune into Newsmax or OAN. Compounding the problem, the propagandists on Fox, like Tucker Carlson and Sean Hannity, continue to undercut their own network's reporting by ludicrously suggesting that Trump could be correct to assert that something nefarious did actually take place to rig the election in favor of Biden.It is morphing into a real problem for Fox. In recent days, the Trump-friendly Newsmax — which, unlike Fox, has not acknowledged Biden as President-elect — has for the first time in its history been successful in peeling away a chunk of the audience that would normally tune into Fox's newscasts. Shows on Newsmax that were averaging less than 100,000 viewers are now amassing audiences several times as large. Last week, one show even crossed over one million viewers.It's unclear how long this trend will hold and it could very well be a short-lived phase. It is also worth noting that, even as Newsmax rips away some of its views, Fox continues to enjoy a dominant position in the conservative news market. But Fox does appear to be reacting to the challenge. It recently launched promotional spots touting the network's pro-Trump prime time lineup attacking the legitimacy of the elections, with a narrator declaring the hosts are "speaking up for you."All that said, it's also worth noting that Fox has armed its rivals with the very instruments they are using against it. Fox has primed viewers to distrust journalists and it has disseminated disinformation and promoted conspiracy theories that support the President. Now, Trump and these fledgling networks are wielding these tactics like a weapon against Fox. In some cases they're also using former Fox personalities against them.Newsmax hosts "Diamond & Silk," who previously hosted a show on Fox's streaming service, insisted Monday that Biden is "NOT the President" and said, "Somebody should let the left-wing media, including Fox News, know!"Greg Kelly, another Newsmax host who was previously a "Fox & Friends" host, said Monday on his show,  "This is not over. Ignore what the mainstream media is telling you right now."If Fox executives are frustrated or perplexed by a the portion of their audience protesting the channel, they need only to look in the mirror to understand who bears the main share of the responsibility. Editor's Note: David Oshinsky directs the Division of Medical Humanities at NYU Langone Health and is a member of the Vaccine Working Group on Ethics and Policy. His book, "Polio: An American Story," won the Pulitzer Prize for History in 2006. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion on CNN.(CNN) - The headlines about the novel coronavirus this week are both alarming and encouraging. First, the bad news: Hospitalizations in the United States have doubled since Labor Day, exceeding the numbers recorded at any time since the pandemic began. Far from "rounding the corner," the nation faces a perilous winter as temperatures start to plunge and flu season takes hold.  But there's also good news: Two Covid-19 vaccine candidates  have shown promise, boosting hopes that the virus can be contained.  The vaccine developed by pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and its German partner, BioNTech, is said to be 90% effective in Phase 3 Trials involving more than 40,000 volunteers -- meaning that those injected with the actual vaccine had 90% fewer cases of "symptomatic" Covid-19 than those injected with a placebo. A similar vaccine made by biotech company Moderna showed slightly better efficacy -- 95% -- although the data from both companies are preliminary and more time is needed to show how well they work. Given that a typical flu vaccine is fortunate to reach 60% effectiveness, the results are encouraging, to say the least.The race for a vaccine in the midst of such intense public scrutiny brings to mind a similar storyline from the baby boom era following World War II. The disease at that time was polio, a viral infection that descended upon the nation each summer like the plague. The virus mainly struck children, killing and paralyzing close to 50,000 each year. Movie theaters sat empty, swimming pools were padlocked, youngsters struggled to use crutches and leg braces, hospital wards were lined wall-to-wall with iron lungs. It wasn't long before science proved triumphant, and Dr. Jonas Salk developed a vaccine that would eventually eliminate the threat of polio in the developed world, and in the process we learned valuable lessons -- some quite painful -- that we should heed today as we search for a vaccine to rid us of Covid-19. The 1940s and '50s predated the key role that the federal government would later play in the testing of drugs and vaccines. The crusade against polio was led by a private charity -- the March of Dimes -- and the millions of terrified parents it recruited to the cause. It usually takes more than a decade to develop a successful vaccine. Under enormous pressure, the March of Dimes rolled out Jonas Salk's killed-virus polio vaccine in less than four years. The Salk trials of 1954 remain the largest public health experiment in American history. More than a million school children participated -- some given three doses of the Salk vaccine, others a look-alike placebo. It took a full year to analyze the results in the age before computers, but the results were stunning.  "SALK'S VACCINE WORKS" screamed the headlines on April 12, 1955. "POLIO IS CONQUERED."  President Dwight D. Eisenhower invited Salk to the White House, where he lauded the young researcher for saving the world's children. "I have no words to thank you," the president said, his voice trembling with emotion. "I am very, very happy."Then disaster struck. Within weeks, the miracle vaccine designed to wipe out polio stood accused of causing it. Reports flooded in of newly vaccinated children being rushed to emergency rooms. It turned out that the amazing success of the Salk trials had led the public to demand an immediate release of the vaccine. And the government had quickly relented, allowing five drug companies to ramp up production without proper oversight. The worst offender, Cutter Laboratories of Berkley, California, released a vaccine so contaminated with live poliovirus that 164 children were permanently paralyzed and 10 died.  Though nearly forgotten today, the Cutter Incident triggered a regulatory revolution in which vaccines undergo rigorous testing to ensure both their efficacy and their safety. There has not been a single case of polio caused by the killed-virus Salk vaccine since that awful moment in 1955, despite the billions of doses administered worldwide.The lightning pace at which the current Covid-19 vaccines are being readied is reminiscent of the polio story -- in part because the term "warp speed" is so poorly understood. No safety corners have been cut. Data from the Phase 3 trials have been meticulously studied, and pauses have occurred at the slightest hint of trouble. Adverse effects from a vaccine overwhelmingly appear within a small time window following vaccination, and two months have now passed since volunteers were administered the final Covid-19 dose. The main difference has been the vastly expanded role of the federal government in underwriting the research, development, and distribution of these vaccines. Rather than eliminating steps, it has allowed them to proceed simultaneously, so that manufacturing can occur while the vaccines are being tested. This increases the financial risk to the government, but not the product risk to the public. Still, many questions remain unanswered. The remarkable numbers provided by Pfizer and Moderna both came in news releases nothing thus far has been peer reviewed. How long will the immunity last? Will it vary among demographics? Will it prevent the cases that currently need hospitalization? In Pfizer's case, can a vaccine that requires storage at temperatures of minus 70 degrees Celsius realistically appear at your doctor's office or the local pharmacy?         Pfizer and other manufacturers are expected to request emergency use authorization from the US Food and Drug Administration, a lever employed sparingly in the past that allows the FDA to make an unapproved product available in a medical emergency. Some experts, seeing  an EUA as premature, have suggested less sweeping measures such as "expanded access," where patients with life-threatening conditions can gain access to experimental treatments when no comparable options exist.  Unfortunately, as we attempt to speed up the means to protect those most at risk from Covid-19, we face a downside as well. Recent opinion polls show a growing skepticism among Americans toward a vaccine process that they fear is moving much too quickly.        This is hardly surprising. The polio years demonstrated that laboratory magic was one part of a larger solution. People needed to feel confident that scientific standards were being upheld, emergency or not, and scientists needed to learn that a successful vaccine requires overwhelming public trust.It's a lesson well worth remembering.  (CNN) - Rudy Giuliani's increasingly outlandish claims of election fraud have former federal officials worried that theories peddled by the man once dubbed "America's mayor" could be dangerous to democracy in the US. Javed Ali, who served as senior director for counterterrorism at the National Security Council during the Trump administration, said that Giuliani and Trump questioning the election's legitimacy makes it more difficult for the US to "wag the finger at other countries where you see similar things happening."  "It's one thing to try to prevent foreign adversaries from engaging in disinformation and misinformation campaigns to influence the elections," Ali said. "When you have the President and his advisers pushing those messages literally from inside the White House, that makes us more vulnerable." As a personal lawyer for President Donald Trump, Giuliani has become a regular presence on right-wing TV, internet shows and on social media, arguing that shady forces stole the election. Giuliani didn't answer CNN's questions about his election fraud claims and declined an interview request. In a statement, he said he had collected dozens of affidavits alleging irregularities in Michigan and Pennsylvania. Dominion theories"Assertions of voter fraud conspiracies are 100% false," Dominion said in a statement. "Election safeguards -- from testing and certification of voting systems, to canvassing and auditing -- prevent malicious actors from tampering with vote counts and ensure that final vote tallies are accurate." Dominion also added that it is a non-partisan company and all vote counts can be audited. Backing TrumpHe launched his political career as a federal prosecutor in New York, where he prosecuted mob bosses and Wall Street fraudsters. After his celebrated role responding to 9/11 as New York mayor, Giuliani became one of the Republican Party's most high-profile figures. He ran for president in 2008, dropping out after trailing in the early GOP primary contests. Giuliani emerged as a vocal supporter of Trump's 2016 presidential bid, and quickly adopted his latest persona as the president's conspiracist in chief. He traveled to Ukraine to try to dig up dirt on Hunter Biden, Joe Biden's son who had business dealings in the country -- part of an effort that led to Trump's impeachment. Intelligence officials told the White House that Giuliani was the target of a Russian influence operation in 2019, according to The Washington Post. "He is standing by his man because Trump has been his vehicle to power," Kirtzman said. "The moment that Donald Trump leaves power is the moment that Rudy Giuliani loses power also, so it's in his best interest to reverse the election results." One of the clearest ways to see the falsehoods behind Giuliani's claims is to follow the Trump campaign's legal challenges, which Giuliani is "spearheading," according to a tweet from Trump. On Friday alone, the campaign dropped a lawsuit in Arizona and lost six cases in two counties in Pennsylvania. In one Pennsylvania court case, in which Trump attorneys tried to have hundreds of ballots thrown out, a judge asked the attorney for Trump: "Are you claiming that there is any fraud in connection with these 592 disputed ballots?" "To my knowledge at present, no," the attorney admitted. The judge dismissed the lawsuit.  "The cases are falling apart," said Ben Ginsberg, a high-profile Republican elections lawyer whose work includes the litigation surrounding the 2000 presidential recount in Florida. Giuliani is "continuing to file cases with no basis in court," he said, arguing that the legal effort "just makes Donald Trump a loser more times."   "The nature of democracy is you have consent of the governed. People have to believe that they had a chance to make their voice heard," said Ben Hovland, a Democrat who was appointed by Trump to lead the US Election Assistance Commission, a federal group that advises on elections. "That's an important piece of the building blocks of any democracy." Brett Bruen, who served as White House director of global engagement during the Obama administration, said that Giuliani's messaging echoes claims from foreign countries seeking to undermine the US. Russian state broadcaster RT, for example, has written several articles highlighting Giuliani and Trump's efforts to discredit the election. "Giuliani has become Moscow's mayor, peddling their propaganda," Bruen said. "It's a disgraceful final chapter for a man who was heralded for his heroism in the hours after the towers fell." Kirtzman, the Giuliani biographer, said that the former mayor has never done anything halfway -- and his wholehearted embrace of election conspiracies is a sign of his dedication to Trump. WASHINGTON — The U.S. Justice Department is dropping its drug trafficking and money laundering against former Mexican defense secretary Gen. Salvador Cienfuegos, Attorney General William Barr said Tuesday.Barr said the department would drop its case so Cienfuegos “may be investigated and, if appropriate, charged, under Mexican law.” Cienfuegos, who was charged in federal court in Brooklyn, was arrested in Los Angeles last month.Cienfuegos, who led Mexico’s army for six years under ex-President Enrique Peña Nieto, was the highest-ranking former Cabinet official arrested since the top Mexican security official Genaro Garcia Luna was arrested in Texas in 2019.Tunder Cienfuegos, the Mexican army was accused of frequent human rights abuses, but that was true of both his predecessors and his successor in the post. The worst scandal in Cienfuegos’ tenure involved the 2014 army killings of suspects in a grain warehouse.The June 2014 massacre involved soldiers who killed 22 suspects at the warehouse in the town of Tlatlaya. While some died in an initial shootout with the army patrol — in which one soldier was wounded — a human rights investigation later showed that at least eight and perhaps as many as a dozen suspects were executed after they surrendered.Barr said in a joint statement with Mexican Attorney General Alejandro Gertz Manero that the U.S. Justice Department had made the decision to drop the U.S. case in recognition “of the strong law enforcement partnership between Mexico and the United States, and in the interests of demonstrating our united front against all forms of criminality.”The Justice Department said it has provided Mexico with evidence collected in the case.Acting Defense Secretary Chris Miller is defending President Donald Trump’s decision to draw down to 2,500 troops in both Afghanistan and Iraq by Jan. 15 amid an onslaught of criticism from top Republican lawmakers. The drawdown, which Miller announced to reporters at the Pentagon on Tuesday, is “consistent” with existing plans and “does not equate to a change in U.S. policy or objectives,” Miller said. “I celebrate this day as we continue the president’s consistent progress in completing the mission we began nearly two decades ago,” said Miller, who became acting secretary one week ago after Trump fired his predecessor, Defense Secretary Mark Esper. Last week, POLITICO reported that Esper's resistance to the drawdown was one of the reasons he was fired.National security adviser Robert O’Brien also touted the drawdown on Tuesday, echoing Miller’s comments that the move does not reflect a change in policy. “By May, it is President Trump's hope that they will all come home safely and in their entirety. I want to reiterate that this policy is not new. This has been the president's policy since he took office,” O’Brien said at the White House minutes after Miller finished speaking at the Pentagon. Neither Miller nor O'Brien took questions from reporters.The comments came as top Republican lawmakers blasted the pace of the withdrawal from Iraq and Afghanistan. Violence in Afghanistan has spiked in recent months.Minutes after the announcement, The Associated Press reported that two Katyusha rockets landed inside Baghdad's fortified Green Zone near the U.S. Embassy, the largest embassy in the world, signaling an end to an informal truce announced by Iran-backed militia in October. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Trump ally, urged the president against making “any earthshaking changes in regards to defense and foreign policy” before leaving office. “A precipitous drawdown in either Afghanistan or Iraq is a mistake,” McConnell said. Rep. Mac Thornberry, House Armed Services ranking Republican, also used the word "mistake.""Further reductions in Afghanistan will also undercut negotiations there; the Taliban has done nothing – met no condition – that would justify this cut," he tweeted.Sen. Ben Sasse, Republican member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, called the withdrawal a "weak retreat" that "is not grounded in reality and will make the world a more dangerous place." He compared it to former President Barack Obama's 2011 withdrawal from Iraq that he said "opened the door" for the emergence of the Islamic State. "Headlines about ‘bringing the boys home’ sound good, but that’s not what’s happening," Sasse said in a statement. Meanwhile, Maine Sen. Angus King, an Independent member of the Senate Intelligence Committee who caucuses with the Democrats, called the drawdown "a dangerous move," stressing that it undermines the U.S. position in negotiations with the Taliban and potentially endangers the American troops who remain in the country. The U.S. is in the process of drawing down to zero by May in exchange for a set of guarantees from the Taliban, including disavowing terrorist groups and negotiating a permanent ceasefire and power-sharing agreement with the Afghan government."We entered into an agreement with the Taliban … that involved drawdowns in exchange for conditions that allowed that to take place. Those conditions have not been met," King said. "At some point you draw down to a certain point and your are endangering the troops that are left.”At least one Democrat, however, said they agreed with the president's move. Rep. Adam Smith (D-Wash.), chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said he had spoken with Miller and believes reducing the U.S. presence in Afghanistan to 2,500 troops is "the right policy decision." "While the history of conflict in the region is complex and predates our direct involvement, after nearly 20 years of armed conflict, Americans and Afghans alike are ready for the violence to end," he said in a statement.The president's order stops short of the full withdrawal from “endless wars” in the region Trump promised during his 2016 campaign and throughout his four years in office. The president wrote in an Oct. 7 tweet that the remaining troops in Afghanistan should be "home by Christmas," alarming lawmakers and top military commanders, who urged a more deliberate drawdown.Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), a top ally of the president, said he appreciates that the president did not order a full withdrawal, stressing in a brief interview that any reduction of U.S. troop presence should be based on conditions on the ground.When asked if the decision was motivated simply by the desire to honor a campaign promise, Graham responded: “I think so. I think a lot of it’s that. Obama had that same desire." But he added: "I do appreciate the president not going to zero. It would become Saigon.”Trump’s decision to leave a few thousand troops in both countries comes at the recommendation of his top national security team and his most senior military advisers both in theater and in Washington, and is based on security concerns on the ground, senior defense officials said ahead of Miller’s comments. Senate Armed Services Committee Chair Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) said in a statement that both Miller and O’Brien assured him that the troop drawdown will not impact the U.S.’s ability to thwart terrorist plots originating in the region — a chief concern of several lawmakers, who have pointed to the Taliban’s recent violations of the peace agreement struck this year.In recent weeks, Trump's top advisers, including O'Brien and Joint Chiefs Chair Gen. Mark Milley, argued that going down to 2,500 by early 2021, as opposed to a full withdrawal by that time, was "a responsible middle ground," said one administration official, who requested anonymity to discuss sensitive conversations."The president understands that a complete withdrawal on this shortened timeline isn’t practical," said the administration official, who blamed previous Pentagon leadership for slow-rolling the drawdown. "If DoD hadn’t obstructed him for four years we’d be in a different place, but this is where we are."The U.S. is currently in the midst of drawing down to 4,500 troops in Afghanistan, and is on track to pull all American troops out by May 2021 under the February peace deal. But in recent months, top U.S. military commanders have argued that violence in Afghanistan is still too high to justify a full withdrawal. As recently as October, officers at U.S. Central Command said they believed the situation in Afghanistan was still too volatile to go below 4,500, and that the Taliban are not negotiating in good faith with the Afghan government.The most recent DoD Inspector General report on the Afghanistan mission cited "distressingly high" levels of violence that could threaten the peace agreement, and noted that intra-Afghan negotiations that began in September "quickly stalled."U.S. Forces-Afghanistan reported to the IG that there were instances of "indirect fire and surface-to-air attacks" against the coalition, including an incident in which the Taliban launched a rocket against a coalition base in Helmand province, according to the report — attacks that would violate the agreement. The Taliban denied responsibility.Leaving a few thousand troops on the ground in Afghanistan is essential for the intelligence operations necessary to keep tabs on the movements of the Taliban and other militant groups, said one former administration official. "With 2,500 troops in Afghanistan, we can protect the American people, we can protect the Afghan people," said one senior defense official. "The decision to bring troops home was made at the direction of the president because the two greatest concerns ... have been met." Matthew Choi, Andrew Desiderio and Bryan Bender contributed to this report.Nancy Pelosi and her top deputies aren't going anywhere. But the House leadership elections that begin this week are likely to reveal the future of the caucus long ruled by the same triumvirate.The 80-year-old California Democrat is expected to easily clinch her caucus’ nomination to be speaker despite some internal grumblings about a disappointing election that significantly narrowed Democrats’ House majority. She’ll still face a full floor vote in January. And her longtime lieutenants — House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, 81, and House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn, 80 — are also running unopposed.“There’s near universal appreciation for ‘thank God Nancy was there during this turbulent four years.’ She was the Rock of Gibraltar,” said Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-Va.). “I think that’s really why the idea of challenging her has not resurfaced and is not likely to.” The real action to watch is down ballot, with a small number of contested elections that will be decided this week and later this month — and will offer a window into the direction of a caucus already trying to position itself for the post-Pelosi era nearly two decades after the California Democrat ascended to power. Democrats also face a new hurdle this year: The caucus will hold its first-ever entirely virtual election as the nation hunkers down for its worst coronavirus surge since March. Lawmakers will be able to nominate candidates, hear speeches and vote using secure technology, rather than the standard secret in-person ballot. Here’s what’s at stake and who's in play in the caucus elections: The election of the House Democratic Caucus chair — the No. 5 position on the leadership ladder — will be the first for Democrats to consider Wednesday. The caucus chair conducts the rest of the elections and thus goes first. Rep. Hakeem Jeffries is running unopposed for a second — and final, according to caucus rules — term as chair. Jeffries has higher ambitions and could even make history one day as the first Black speaker of the House. But the New York Democrat’s decision to run for caucus chair again signals he has zero interest in trying to take on Pelosi, despite a haphazard whisper campaign by some Democrats hoping he’d do so in recent weeks. Pelosi is not expected to face opposition to her bid to return to the speaker’s chair for what could potentially be her last term in Congress. Despite losing more than half a dozen seats in the election, Pelosi remains at the height of her power with a firm grip on caucus politics in her second turn as speaker. The California Democrat is expected to easily win her party’s nomination for speaker, needing only a simple majority of the caucus to vote for her on Wednesday. Then her real work begins — where Pelosi will engage in a six-week persuasion campaign to lock down the 218 Democratic votes she’ll need for a floor vote in January. Fifteen Democrats voted against Pelosi in 2019 — several of whom lost their reelection earlier this month. This time around, Pelosi will have a significantly smaller margin for error. Several races have yet to be called but Pelosi can only lose a handful of Democrats on the floor in January. Pelosi’s most vocal Democratic detractors admit there’s no one willing or capable of challenging her. But they do plan to publicly press Pelosi on a transition plan for the next generation of leadership and whether she still plans to honor an agreement reached in 2018 that she would only serve two more terms as speaker. “Clearly we need to build a transition so that next Congress we have new leadership,” said Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.), who voted against Pelosi for speaker in 2018. “We need younger folks to have an opportunity to get trained. That’s something I will be pushing ... to make sure whoever is elected speaker, majority leader, whip, whatever, that there’s a clear way to train people.” Unlike Pelosi, Hoyer and Clyburn notably did not agree to term limits two years ago and have been opposed to efforts within the caucus to formalize limits on leadership since then. But all three are expected by many to eventually vacate the top three leadership posts at the same time. Four Democrats are also running unopposed for the four open spots on the Democratic Policy and Communications Committee, the caucus’ messaging arm. Reps. Debbie Dingell (D-Mich.), Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) and Matt Cartwright (D-Pa.) are all seeking another term as co-chairs. Rep. Joe Neguse (D-Colo.), who currently serves in leadership as the freshman representative, is running unopposed for the fourth slot. Democrats have just a pair of high-profile leadership races, which lawmakers say has been made far trickier to whip — and to predict the results — without the usual chatter on the House floor or in hallways due to the pandemic. Those races are likely to be decided on Thursday. Rep. Katherine Clark (D-Mass.) and Rep. David Cicilline (D-R.I.) — two well-liked Democrats who are both already on Pelosi’s leadership team — are vying for the party’s No. 4 position, assistant speaker. The position is currently held by Rep. Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.), who was elected to the Senate this month.Clark allies say they are confident that the Massachusetts Democrat — who, as vice chair, already outranks Cicilline — will edge ahead, thanks to her support from an aggressive whip operation and her fundraising and recruitment efforts in recent cycles. But Cicilline supporters have also been pushing hard on his behalf, and many Democrats acknowledge that it could still be close.Cicilline currently serves as chair on the Democratic Policy and Communications Committee, a post he ran for after dropping out of the assistant speaker race against Luján last cycle. The battle for caucus vice chair, the No. 6 leadership post, has come down to Reps. Pete Aguilar (D-Calif.) and Robin Kelly (D-Ill.), after a third contender, Rep. Deb Haaland (D-N.M.), dropped her bid this week.Kelly would be the first Black woman elected to Democratic leadership in the House, with many in the Congressional Black Caucus behind her. Aguilar, a centrist who unsuccessfully ran for the post two years ago, would be the highest-ranking Latino in the House, after Luján’s departure. Aguilar recently locked up support from one of the caucus’ largest groups — the New Democrat Coalition — in a rare endorsement, though that formal position rattled some members of the group who had been loyal to Kelly. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus on Monday night also endorsed Aguilar. Democrats will also decide between a trio of lawmakers vying for the leadership post reserved for members who have served five terms or less in Congress. The position, currently held by Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-Md.), is limited to one term. Reps. Colin Allred (D-Texas) and Jason Crow (D-Colo.), both rising sophomores, and Rep. Brenda Lawrence (D-Mich.), elected in 2014, are running for the spot. The most-watched contest will be decided the week after Thanksgiving — the race to succeed Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-Ill.) as head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Typically Democrats serve two terms as DCCC chair, but Bustos announced she would not run again for the post caucus’ disappointing down-ballot finish on Election Day. House Democrats have lost a net seven seats with more possible as 10 races remain uncalled.The battle for DCCC chair has come down to Reps. Tony Cárdenas (D-Calif.) and Sean Patrick Maloney (D-N.Y.). Cárdenas, who raised record sums for the Congressional Hispanic Caucus’s campaign arm, Bold PAC, this year, has argued to members that he can make up the gaps where Biden fell flat among Latinos this November. Maloney, who hails from a district Donald Trump won in 2016, pitched himself as a swing-district Democrat who can protect the caucus’ most vulnerable members — and its fragile majority — going into the 2022 midterms. “It’s just very difficult to hold the majority when your party is in the White House so we have to acknowledge that that will be a challenge,” Rep. Stephanie Murphy (D-Fla.), a leader of the Blue Dog Coalition, said in an interview. “My hope is whoever takes on the leadership of the campaign arm of the party gets an objective assessment on exactly what happened and operates from a place of fact.”December will also mark the end of a more than yearlong battle for the powerful House Appropriations gavel — a race that began in earnest after 83-year-old Rep. Nita Lowey (D-N.Y.) announced her retirement last October. A trio of Democrats — Reps. Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio), Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.) and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) — have spent the year lining up support.DeLauro, a senior progressive who is close to Pelosi, has long been considered the frontrunner, though a group of moderates have made a push to elevate Wasserman Schultz in recent months, eager to hand the gavel off to a younger generation. The House is asking the Supreme Court to postpone consideration of Democrats’ 18-month effort to obtain former special counsel Robert Mueller’s secret evidence, citing the imminent inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden.In a filing with the high court on Tuesday, House counsel Doug Letter urged the court to postpone a Dec. 2 hearing on the matter. Biden’s ascension to the Oval Office, combined with a newly constituted Congress taking office next year will require the House Judiciary Committee to reconsider how to pursue its investigation, Letter said.“The Committee’s investigations into misconduct by President Trump, oversight of agency activities during the Trump Administration, and consideration of related legislative reforms have remained ongoing,” he wrote. “But a new Congress will convene in the first week of January 2021, and President-elect Biden will be inaugurated on January 20, 2021. Once those events occur, the newly constituted Committee will have to determine whether it wishes to continue pursuing the application for the grand-jury materials that gave rise to this case.”The filing suggests the House is broadly reconsidering its posture toward Trump-era investigations in light of Biden's election victory. The House is also in court attempting to obtain Trump's financial records and tax returns and to force his former White House counsel Don McGahn — a star witness in Mueller's obstruction of justice investigation — to testify.An aide to Judiciary Chair Jerry Nadler told POLITICO recently that Nadler intends to pursue the McGahn deposition even after Trump leaves office as part of an effort to implement protections from political interference in the Justice Department.But the Judiciary Committee's effort to obtain Mueller's grand jury information is one of the House's longest continuing legal actions of the Trump era.The panel filed a petition in July 2019 to obtain Mueller's grand jury evidence, material that is typically closely held within the judiciary. But Nadler and his allies emphasized that Congress has often been granted exception to grand jury secrecy, particularly as it has considered bringing articles of impeachment against previous presidents, including Richard Nixon in the Watergate investigation and Bill Clinton during Ken Starr's independent counsel probe.At the heart of the issue is whether Congress' impeachment power, which can result in a Senate trial, counts as a “judicial proceeding” akin to a courtroom process. The limited exceptions to grand jury secrecy include allowances for “judicial proceedings,” and lawmakers have long treated House impeachment inquiries and Senate trials as satisfying that exception.But Attorney General William Barr rejected the characterization and said he saw no legal precedent for forking over reams of Mueller’s grand jury material to lawmakers, even in the context of impeachment.The case has wound through the courts, with Democrats winning at both the district and appeals court levels before the Supreme Court agreed over the summer to take the case.Sen. Rob Portman is participating in a Covid-19 vaccine trial to try to boost public confidence in a shot when it becomes available, the Ohio Republican said in an interview. Portman, who has broken with many of his fellow Republicans on issues like mask wearing, joined a large, late-stage trial of Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine candidate almost two weeks ago. He said polls showing skepticism about an eventual Covid-19 shot convinced him that public figures need to demonstrate confidence in a vaccine.“My hope is that people will stop criticizing the best scientists in the world who are at the FDA — who by the way are following the science — and instead encourage people to step up and be involved in these trials and to get vaccinated,” Portman told POLITICO. Portman so far is the only senator to announce participation in a clinical trial for a Covid-19 vaccine. The 64-year-old lawmaker said he hopes the disclosure will help tamp down the partisan fighting that’s surrounded development of Covid-19 vaccines and threatens to undermine the best chance at bringing an end to the pandemic. Public confidence in a coronavirus vaccine has been declining throughout the year, according to polls conducted before this month’s promising news about candidates from Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech. Half of Americans last month said they would not get the coronavirus shot, down from two-thirds this summer, according to Gallup polling. Portman called the Gallup poll “very concerning,” calling out politicians for creating distrust — without identifying those he believes has fueled the public’s hesitancy. Both parties have said there’s plenty of blame to go around. Democrats argued President Donald Trump’s frequent suggestions that a vaccine would be ready before the election eroded confidence in the scientific process, while Trump has accused Democrats of sowing doubts about vaccine safety. Several states, largely led by Democrats, have promised to conduct their own reviews once the Food and Drug Administration green lights a shot. Portman’s announcement comes amid a fresh burst of optimism that two vaccines could be authorized in the coming weeks. Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech last week announced early data showed their vaccine candidate was at least 90 percent effective, and Moderna on Monday said its experimental shot was over 94 percent effective. The Cincinnati-based consulting firm running Johnson & Johnson’s trial recruited Portman during a briefing on the vaccine’s progress. Officials at the firm, CTI, told him his participation would help counteract public concerns, he said. Portman joined the 60,000-person Phase 3 trial of Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose vaccine, receiving his shot on Nov. 5 — two days after the election. The company is also running a separate Phase 3 trial of a two-dose shot. Like other participants, Portman doesn’t know whether he received the vaccine candidate or a placebo. Portman said he was required to keep his participation private until now to allow time to observe possible adverse effects. He said he hopes other colleagues will follow his example. The trial Portman is participating in was paused last month after a participant got seriously ill. The company on Oct. 23 announced it would resume the trial after investigators found the illness wasn’t related to the vaccine.Moncef Slaoui, who’s overseeing Operation Warp Speed, the interagency effort to develop coronavirus vaccines and treatments, said during a Monday interview on MSNBC he believes data on the single-shot trial will be available to regulators by the second half of January, with authorization possible by late February.Rudy Giuliani, President Donald Trump’s personal attorney, filed a petition in federal court on Tuesday to represent the Trump campaign in its controversial lawsuit seeking to challenge election results in Pennsylvania.Giuliani’s petition — which was later granted by U.S. District Court Judge Matthew Brann — represents the latest shake-up in the case, after the Trump campaign significantly scaled back its lawsuit on Sunday by dropping legal claims stemming from observers who said they were blocked from viewing vote-counting in counties dominated by Democrats.On Monday, the Trump campaign sought to replace its entire team of lawyers handling the lawsuit, filing a motion to install Marc Scaringi — an attorney, conservative talk radio host and former Senate candidate — as the campaign’s counsel. Brann, the federal judge overseeing the case, later rejected Scaringi’s request to delay a crucial court hearing scheduled for Tuesday afternoon on motions by Pennsylvania state and county officials to dismiss the lawsuit.Giuliani’s move to head up the Trump campaign’s Pennsylvania court fight comes two weeks after Election Day, as the president continues to mount legal challenges to the results in key swing states and repeats his baseless allegations of widespread voter fraud.Trump appointed Giuliani last Friday to oversee any new post-election litigation. But the former New York mayor has drawn scrutiny within the campaign for his conspiratorial arguments in defense of the president, as well as his orchestration of a news conference outside a Philadelphia landscaping business adjacent to an adult bookstore and a crematorium.The United States government will be missing from a global climate summit for the first time next month, and the timing couldn’t be more inconvenient for other world leaders.They are desperate to commence work with the incoming Biden administration, which is promising the most ambitious climate change policies of any incoming American administration, including a "100 percent clean energy economy” and “net-zero emissions no later than 2050."But when dozens of national leaders gather online Dec. 12, at a summit organized by the U.K. government to press ahead with a new and more onerous stage of the Paris climate agreement, the U.S. won’t be at the table: The Trump administration has left the agreement, while President-elect Joe Biden and his transition team can’t attend.That dynamic left British Prime Minister Boris Johnson bragging to the House of Commons about Biden’s enthusiasm for a climate summit more than a year away — “it was extremely exciting to talk to President-elect Biden about what he wants to do with the COP26 summit next year,” he said last week — though it leaves Johnson empty-handed for his Dec. 12 event.With national government invitations restricted to sitting leaders willing to present new climate commitments, summit organizers plan to reserve several speaking slots for local and state government and nonprofit speakers, allowing them to include Democratic representatives aligned with Biden.“We're inviting all countries to come and make ambitious climate change commitments including referencing commitments they've made during the course of the year,” COP26 envoy John Murton told POLITICO’s EU Confidential podcast. The summit would also be an occasion for businesses, cities and regional governments to announce new pledges.“We've seen several U.S. states make commitments to net zero over the last six months,” Murton said.Two British officials told POLITICO that after discussions last week between former Secretary of State John Kerry, a Biden ally in contention for a climate envoy role in the new administration, and Alok Sharma, the British minister in charge of the Dec. 12 summit, the short list includes: Washington state Gov. Jay Inslee, New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Boston Mayor Marty Walsh, former Environmental Protection Authority Administrator Gina McCarthy, and Energy Innovation CEO Hal Harvey. A decision on the speaking lineup — which needs to be signed off by both the British and French governments — is expected later this week.Although Biden’s election brings new energy to global climate efforts, the world isn’t waiting for the Biden administration to direct the next stage of global climate diplomacy. Instead, summit organizers are presenting China and the EU with their biggest climate tests yet.While both China and the EU have pledged to cut emissions to net zero — the EU by 2050 and China by 2060 — getting there requires more specific medium-term commitments, and announcing at least some of those efforts is a requirement of Dec. 12 summit organizers.Those commitments would put the EU and China even further in front of U.S. policy, based on little more than the hope that the incoming Biden administration will live up to its climate promises.Under pressure from summit organizers — who have banned national leaders from using speaking slots to recycle outdated climate commitments — EU leaders will meet the day before the global event in an effort to agree to deeper emissions cuts by 2030. Summit organizers expect leaders to explain their “net-zero emission” strategies, announce new climate finance commitments or “ambitious” plans for adapting to climate change that cannot be avoided, according to a document circulated to governments by the U.K. Cabinet Office obtained by POLITICO.“It's one thing to make a long-term emissions reduction target like net-zero. It's another thing to actually work out what … policymakers have to do today, next week, next year, in the next five years, in order to achieve that target. So that's quite a long process of working back from the target that you've set yourself,” Murton said. Ahead of the summit, U.K. officials will “work through with Chinese colleagues ... what does a 2060 target mean,” he said, adding organizers expected China to restate its commitment to slash emissions to net zero.The timing of the Dec. 12 summit puts Biden in the position of having to gather global leaders again next year to show U.S. commitment after President Donald Trump obliterated trust in America by ditching the Paris accord. That could come in the form of a global summit within Biden’s first 100 days in office, or by placing climate change at the top of the agenda of G-7 and G-20 summits. On phone calls with roughly a dozen leaders in recent days, Biden has positioned climate change as a top priority for joint action in 2021.The Biden transition team has not released details of its promised climate summit, but Biden allies say the purpose of the event would be to show the U.S. is committing to using economic recovery from Covid-19 to address climate issues, “elevating issues on the global stage in a way that the world has clearly been missing the last four years,” said Elan Strait, a former Obama administration State Department official now at WWF.The Biden transition team did not respond to a request for comment.The incoming Biden administration faces a credibility challenge that won’t be met simply by rejoining the Paris climate agreement — as Biden has promised on the first day of his administration.While leaders around the world may trust Biden’s intentions, they will have to make their own plans not knowing if he can deliver his $2 trillion dollar clean energy campaign plan and other critical policies to cut American emissions in face of a deeply divided Congress.European officials warn the world’s climate goal posts have shifted since Biden last held office. “We will have tough discussions with the new administration in the U.S.,” said Bas Eickhout, a senior lawmaker from the Green party in the European Parliament. He said reentry into the Paris accords “will give huge impetus to others,” but he expects Biden to go beyond the Obama administration’s promise to cut emissions by 26 percent to 28 percent of 2005 levels by 2025.Nowhere has American trustworthiness been more sorely bruised than in Beijing: It was a bilateral pact with the Chinese that laid the groundwork for the 2015 Paris Agreement, and Trump’s reversal tore that up.Instead of filling the global climate leadership vacuum left by the U.S., China reverted to clinging to its status as a low-income country to defend its right to develop, even at a high environmental price.Then, in September, China surprised the world and decided to go solo with a pledge to cut emissions to net zero by 2060. If China uses the British government’s request for “bold” new pledges for the next decade at the Dec. 12 event to announce its interim goals, that may preempt “a U.S. competitive or confrontational climate narrative towards China” under Biden, said Li Shuo, a policy expert with Greenpeace East Asia.Still, Biden’s election puts “a tailwind at the backs of the countries organizing” climate summits, said Alden Meyer, a veteran of global climate negotiations.John E. Morton, an Obama-era climate official now with Pollination, a climate change advisory and investment firm, is confident of a quick resumption of America’s global climate links.“Many of the ties between European leaders and incoming Biden senior ranks have remained strong. They don’t require much reactivation energy. Those are relationships and dialogues that have continued over the last four years. They will pick up in advance of where they left off,” Morton said.The Biden administration also will attempt to weave its aggressive climate stance into trade agreements. Biden and other Democrats want to use U.S. trade policy to fight climate change, conditioning new trade deals on partners’ climate commitments and placing tariffs on high-carbon imports.Domestically, former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy told reporters Thursday that the Biden administration “could make the biggest change ever about resetting how the federal government uses its money,” as part of its climate efforts. She emphasized sprinkling climate initiatives across all federal departments, rather than concentrating it among agencies like the EPA, and establishing climate goals on grants and other dollars distributed to states.The limits of Biden’s presidential power may become all too clear in the face of a slim Democratic majority in the House and possibly a Republican-controlled Senate.“[W]ithout a Democratic Senate, Biden would be hard pressed to pledge the level of U.S. ambition that’s needed and that other countries will expect,” said Elliot Diringer, executive vice president of the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions. “Executive powers alone won’t be enough, so he’ll have to lean more heavily on state, city and corporate action.”Charlie Cooper contributed to this report from London.Sen. Chuck Grassley, the second oldest member of the Senate, has tested positive for coronavirus. In a statement, the 87-year-old Iowa Republican said that he learned he was exposed to the coronavirus Tuesday morning and received a positive test. “While I still feel fine, the test came back positive for the coronavirus,” Grassley said. “I am continuing to follow my doctors’ orders and CDC guidelines. I’ll be keeping up my work for the people of Iowa from home.” Grassley joins Sens. Mike Lee (R-Utah), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Rand Paul (R-Ky.) and Bill Cassidy (R-La.) in testing positive for the virus. Meanwhile, Sens. Tim Kaine (D-Va.) and Bob Casey (D-Pa.) have tested positive for coronavirus antibodies. Grassley’s absence due to the coronavirus will break his record vote streak of nearly 9,000 uninterrupted votes since 1993. The Iowa Republican’s positive test comes as cases continue to reach record levels across the country. The U.S. Capitol has yet to implement a bicameral testing regime. Earlier this month, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) announced a dramatic expansion of Covid testing for lawmakers. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has not indicated whether the Senate will implement a similar effort. Grassley, the Senate’s president pro tempore, has emphasized the importance of wearing a mask and the need for social distancing, including in a speech Monday. He is third in line of succession for the presidency after Vice President Mike Pence and Pelosi.“Although promising vaccines for the coronavirus is more important than ever, it is important to stop the surge,” he said. “I ask every Iowan to continue to do their part to keep their family and neighbors safe. Wash your hands, limit your activity outside your household, social distance, wear a mask.” Senators showed glimpses of agreement Tuesday on what regulations they think are needed to rein in social media companies — even finding some small common ground with the CEOs of Facebook and Twitter.But partisan disagreements over how the companies handled the 2020 elections dominated the four-hour hearing with Mark Zuckerberg and Jack Dorsey, showing that lawmakers are still fundamentally at odds over how companies should police some of the most controversial content on their platforms.Here are POLITICO’s top takeaways from the Senate Judiciary Committee’s hearing:The CEOs of Twitter and Facebook expanded on their recent calls for Congress to consider updating a 1996 law known as Section 230 that protects them and other online companies from lawsuits over the user content they host or remove. But they stopped short of endorsing more sweeping changes.Asked by Judiciary Chair Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) if they support a “reform” of the law, both Zuckerberg and Dorsey said they do. The tech moguls offered suggestions for new requirements lawmakers could impose, such as mandating that companies publicly post their content policies. They first raised some of those ideas at a Senate Commerce Committee hearing in October.But both Dorsey and Zuckerberg rejected calls to revoke the legal shield altogether — as both President Donald Trump and President-elect Joe Biden have proposed for much different reasons. The CEOs also warned that even more targeted proposals could make it harder for smaller companies to compete in the market.In his written testimony, Dorsey went a step further, explicitly urging Congress not to create new carve-outs to the Section 230 immunity, something Senate Judiciary lawmakers on Tuesday indicated they plan to continue to pursue.Congress in 2018 overwhelmingly passed a measure that poked a hole in that immunity in cases where companies "knowingly" enable sex trafficking. Lawmakers have since floated similar carve-outs, which Dorsey objected to. Dorsey wrote that “amending the law solely through carve-outs will inevitably favor large incumbents with vast resources who may willingly embrace such changes as it would leave only a small number of giant and well-funded technology companies.”Republicans, Democrats and even the Silicon Valley chiefs found one area of agreement: Tech companies need to be more transparent about what their content policies are and how they enforce them.“We’ve got to find a way to make sure that when Twitter and Facebook make a decision about what’s reliable and what’s not, what to keep up and what to take down, that there’s transparency in the system,” Graham said in his opening remarks.Zuckerberg even suggested creating a “regulatory framework” where companies must publish transparency reports that show how effective they’ve been at enforcing their rules.That didn’t satisfy all the lawmakers, though. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), an outspoken critic of Twitter and Facebook, pressed both CEOs to answer in writing how often their companies have “blocked” posts by Democrats and Republicans in the past three federal elections.After Dorsey said Twitter would “certainly look into it,” Cruz accused him of using “lawyerly double-speak” to dodge the question. Zuckerberg said he wasn’t sure Facebook had such data, but that it would follow-up with Cruz’s office.“I’m going to take that as a ‘yes,’ and Twitter, we’ll see if that’s a ‘yes,’ or, ‘transparency is bogus and we don’t intend to provide it,’” Cruz shot back.There was no way for Tuesday’s hearing to pass without a partisan tug-of-war over allegations of political bias.Republicans, especially those close to Trump, have insisted that social media platforms censor conservative points of view. Increased efforts by Facebook and Twitter to label misleading posts from the president and his backers fueled even more of those accusations Tuesday, even as Democrats accused the companies of allowing Trump to spread falsehoods about his reelection defeat.“It's dismaying listening to the questions from our Democratic colleagues, because consistently the message from Senate Democrats is for Facebook and Twitter and Google to censor more, to abuse their power more, to silence voices that Senate Democrats disagree with more,” Cruz said.“That is very dangerous if we want to maintain a free and fair democracy,” he continued.But Democrats did not back down. They have pressured social media companies throughout the election to more rigorously fact-check political posts and ads, and to block disinformation before it goes viral.“You've been called before the Senate committee so my Republican colleagues can beat you up over claims that your platforms are supposedly biased against conservatives,” Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) told Dorsey and Zuckerberg. “The fact of the matter is that these allegations are completely baseless."“The way I see it, this hearing is a transparent effort by my Republican colleagues to work the refs,” she added.Republicans came to Tuesday’s hearing armed with examples of social media posts that the companies labeled or restricted, calling them evidence of a broader campaign to censor conservatives. While the executives denied political bias, they also were quick to acknowledge missteps.“Unfortunately when we handle millions or billions of pieces of content a day, while we strive to do as well as possible and be as precise as possible, we will make some mistakes,” Zuckerberg said after Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) asked him why anti-Biden ads describing the now president-elect’s views on abortion were blocked.Lee also pressed Dorsey on Twitter’s since-reversed decision to suspend the account of Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Mark Morgan over a tweet touting the effectiveness of the U.S.-Mexico border wall. Twitter initially found that it violated policies against hate but overturned the decision on appeal."There was a mistake and it was due to the fact that we had heightened awareness around government accounts during this time,” Dorsey said.While companies can make mistakes, Lee argued, Silicon Valley harbors a bias against conservatives. The Morgan incident is an example of social media companies "taking a very distinctively partisan approach and not a neutral one to election-related content moderation,” he said.Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) was one of a number of senators who raised questions about the companies’ decisions to restrict the distribution of a disputed New York Post article based on leaked documents allegedly belonging to the president-elect’s son Hunter Biden. Dorsey said that move, too, was a mistake and that the company has since updated its policies.Some of the legislative threats facing the tech industry might diminish if Republicans retain control of the Senate, given the parties’ sharp divides on some of the problems they want Congress to address. But lawmakers on both sides made it clear that their scrutiny of the industry isn’t going away.Graham and Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), who are leading a bipartisan effort to revamp Section 230, pledged to press ahead with that push in the next Congress. And Blumenthal floated more sweeping action, raising the specter of even a “possible repeal in large part” of the statute.The session also showcased the breadth of concerns on Capitol Hill about the companies’ conduct.Sen. Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, the top Democrat on Judiciary’s antitrust subcommittee, grilled Zuckerberg about allegations that the company has snatched up emerging competitors in violation of federal antitrust laws. Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), head of Judiciary’s intellectual property subcommittee, pressed the tech moguls to commit their companies to testifying at a December hearing on the topic. And a broad cast of lawmakers voiced concern about the pervasiveness of social media addiction, particularly among young children.Plus, Democrats and Republicans said they will be watching how the companies handle political content in advance of two crucial Senate runoffs in Georgia in January.“This election in Georgia could determine in fact which party controls the United States Senate,” Blumenthal said. “I’m concerned that both of your companies are in fact backsliding.”WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. — President Donald Trump’s campaign on Tuesday sought to add some star power to its flailing legal effort to contest the election results, deploying former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani to this small central Pennsylvania city to argue that the state’s election tallies should be thrown out because they’re tainted by fraud.Arriving to cheers from a band of Trump supporters gathered in a mall parking lot across the street, Giuliani strode into the modest, four-story federal courthouse for hearing on a bid by Pennsylvania officials to dismiss a lawsuit the Trump campaign filed last week to try to block certification of President-elect Joe Biden as the winner of the state’s 20 electoral votes.“The best description of this situation is it’s a widespread, nationwide voter fraud,” Giuliani said during a half-hour-long opening statement at the court session. “This is a part of the reason I’m here, Your Honor, because it is not an isolated case.”Taking the helm of the Trump campaign’s legal team after days of chaos and tumult, the former mayor put forward a double-barreled argument: that the election in Pennsylvania was deeply flawed because hundreds of thousands of mail-in ballots were processed with inadequate access by Republican observers, and because some counties allowed voters to fix or “cure” mail-in ballots that didn’t follow state requirements.Giuliani argued that the Democratic machine in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, as well as other cities, took advantage of the flood of mail-in votes to count ballots that should have been disqualified.“It’s almost like putting them in the candy store,” Giuliani said. He said the effort required excluding Republicans and other observers during the vote-counting process, so they and others were put far away.“It has been not violated in this case — it’s been trashed. It’s been stepped all over. It’s been disregarded here and in some other places in an eerily similar pattern,” Giuliani added. “The places it happened just happened to be big cities controlled by Democrats.”Giuiliani showed the court images of election-observing arrangements in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. He complained that in many cases observers were kept so far away that they couldn’t see anything on the ballots.“We’re not bringing up a frivolous argument here, Your Honor,” Giuliani insisted to U.S. District Court Judge Matthew Brann. “This happened. This is happening in all these places.”Daniel Donovan, an attorney for Secretary of State Kathy Boockvar, said the campaign and the voters have a forum to litigate their objections, but not in a federal court. “They do have an avenue. If there are challenges from voters or campaigns, there’s a path, but it’s state court, not federal court,” Donovan said in his rebuttal to Giuliani.Donovan also argued that the suit was fatally flawed because the campaign and the two Pennsylvania voters who are also plaintiffs in the case lacked the “particularized injury” to pursue a federal court case. Donovan repeatedly cited a ruling from a Trump-appointed federal judge in Pittsburgh last month that the campaign lacked standing to challenge the use of drop boxes to collect absentee ballots.While Giuliani portrayed mail-in voting as a boon for Democrats, Donovan noted that the changes to Pennsylvania law broadening access to absentee ballots passed the Republican-controlled legislature before being signed by Gov. Tom Wolf, a Democrat.Brann is an appointee of President Barack Obama, but was selected by Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.). The judge was courteous to Giuliani, referring to him as “Mayor,” but did not pepper him or Donovan with questions during the first part of the hearing.After a little more than an hour, the session was interrupted because of the failure of phone lines the court had set up for the media and the public to listen in.The hearing in this city of about 28,000 residents, about an hour and a half drive north of the capital, Harrisburg, drew a raucous crowd of Trump supporters, who chanted, prayed and sang before and during the court session.Cries of “Stop the steal!” ”Dead people can’t vote!” and “Four more years!” went on for hours, occasionally punctuated by honking horns from passersby in this solidly red county, where voters went for Trump over Biden, 70 percent to 29 percent.The leaders of President-elect Joe Biden’s coronavirus advisory board said Tuesday the Trump administration’s continued refusal to allow the transition to move forward is hurting their preparedness planning on multiple fronts, from addressing mask shortages to recommending targeted closures in hot spots and laying the groundwork to distribute prospective vaccines.The transition team is unable to consult with federal health officials or access real-time data on available hospital beds, the status of the National Strategic Stockpile and therapeutics, among other things. For now, they said that's forcing them to rely on piecemeal data from state and local officials and public sources like the Covid Tracking Project.“Not only do we need cooperation in order to ensure that we have a good vaccine delivery plan — we really need it across the board,” said Vivek Murthy, one of the co-chairs of the advisory board. “That cooperation will impact how effective we are at closing the testing gap, ensuring that hospitals and doctors and nurses have enough protective equipment like masks and gloves and make sure we have enough syringes and swabs to proceed with a vaccination campaign.”Biden has previously warned that the General Services Administration’s delay in recognizing him as the winner of the election could hamper his team’s ability to create a national vaccination campaign should one or more of the promising candidate vaccines gain emergency authorization — a warning echoed by top federal infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci, who is so far barred from any communication with Biden’s team.Former FDA Commissioner David Kessler, another co-chair of the group, said Biden's advisers also lack the information they need to move forward on Biden’s call for investing in rapid, at-home coronavirus tests.“Scaling that up, as the President-elect has talked about, is going to take planning,” he said .Yale University’s Marcella Nunez-Smith, the third co-chair, said Biden also needs access to the non-public federal data in order to recommend the more targeted shutdowns he believes are needed to curb the recent surges across the country.“He’s already said he’s not going to shut down the economy, that’s not his plan, he’s going to shut down the virus,” she said. “But in order to do that we need to be precise and follow the data in dialing up and dialing back and reopening.”The U.S. intelligence community has begun compiling an authoritative account of foreign interference and influence efforts made during this year's election — a report that could answer whether the nation's defenses held up as well as they initially appeared.The product, including a potential public release by or sometime in January, could also guide the incoming Biden administration and Congress as they look to protect future national elections. And it could bolster or undermine last week’s declaration by a group of local, state and federal officials that "[t]he November 3rd election was the most secure in American history."“Before we reach [a] conclusion, let’s wait for the after-action report, so we can really get an analysis of what did happen and what didn’t happen,” said Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee.A 2018 executive order initially called for the intelligence community to produce such a report, and Congress last year enshrined that requirement into law. The analysis is coming as President Donald Trump continues to fling baseless accusations of election fraud, and follows pre-election warnings that countries including Russia were waging cyberattacks on state and local governments while flooding social media with disinformation.Despite the alerts, the latest presidential election shows no obvious signs of being derailed by the kind of massive foreign influence operation that helped upend 2016.“Something very sizable happened in 2016," said Sen. Angus King (I-Maine), who is under consideration to be President-elect Joe Biden's spy chief. "The real question is, why didn’t it [this time]? Why was it less in ’18 and less this year? ... I’m very interested in knowing what worked and what didn’t so that if we had some successes we can repeat them,” King said.Reopening old fights: The examination requires the director of national intelligence, in consultation with individual intelligence agencies, to analyze possible foreign interference and submit a classified assessment within 45 days following a U.S. election. The report must include the nature of the meddling, methods and persons involved, as well as responsible foreign entities.An unclassified version is supposed to be available within 60 days after the election.An ODNI spokesperson confirmed that “work is underway," but wouldn't say which agencies would contribute to the findings or which organization would take the lead coordinating the final result.The report was partly inspired by the intelligence community's nonpartisan assessment in early 2017 that Russia had interfered in the 2016 election for reasons that included aiding President Donald Trump, according to a House Intelligence Committee official. The official said by making a report more regular, it would remove the political considerations, and encourage further transparency by the intelligence community.The pending assessment could cause another election security battle between Capitol Hill Democrats and the outgoing administration.The two sides jousted over the topic for months earlier this year.Democrats initially argued that the administration wrongly placed China in the same league as, and often ahead of, the threat posed by Iran and Russia. Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe soon vowed to rein in briefings to Congress about election security, citing concern about leaks, only to reverse course and announce he would continue to brief leadership and the Senate and House intelligence committees.While the two sides have reached a kind of truce, Democrats remain suspicious that any finding from the clandestine community could end up slanted. Those concerns escalated after administration officials said Ratcliffe went off script last month when he alleged during a news conference that Iran was meddling in the election in order to “damage President Trump.”Acting Senate Intelligence Chair Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) dismissed the suggestion that the report’s language would be politicized, saying the administration protected the last election “excellently.”He said he also doubts that the evaluation would reveal something, such as a breach of voting infrastructure, that lawmakers don’t already know. “I think we would have heard about that,” Rubio said.However, the product probably will offer “details about whatever attack there might have been, what were the most effective steps taken to prevent it,” he said.“What’s important is to separate two things: interference with the actual mechanisms of voting and then influence. There’s still plenty of influence efforts going on and those are year-round at this point,” Rubio told POLITICO. “But the interference, the actual messing with a local jurisdiction, that’s the one area where you can take the most immediate action. There’s been tremendous improvements in our ability to do so. We’ll learn more when they issue the report.”Warner said he would expect information from the individual agencies to be a “truthful rendition” of what occurred during the election, but added that if ODNI scrubs the data to please the president “that would bother me a great deal.”In a statement, House Intelligence Committee chair Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) said that to help "inoculate" the public against future interference, Americans must be armed "with the best information, the assessment must be precise, comprehensive, and free of political influence."Keep worrying: In the meantime, lawmakers and experts agree that this is no time for the U.S. government or the public to take their eyes off threats to election security, despite the absence of any signs that foreign meddling swayed the 2020 contest.“I will say that the idea that we can stop worrying about cybersecurity in our elections because we didn’t see a successful crippling attack against our election infrastructure strikes me as absurd,” said Larry Norden, director of the Brennan Center for Justice’s election reform program. “To paraphrase Ruth Bader Ginsburg, you don’t throw away your umbrella in a rainstorm because you are not getting wet. We don’t have the luxury of fatigue on this issue.”Neil Jenkins, who led the Homeland Security Department’s election security work in 2016, said election officials at all levels, plus social media platforms and nonprofits, “all did a great job of collaborating and preparing for the range of threats in 2020. Just because we believe something didn’t happen this time doesn’t mean we get to relax" now.“We have time for a quick sigh of relief,” said Jenkins, now chief analytic officer at the Cyber Threat Alliance. "But then you review what worked and what didn’t, continue to build trust through collaboration, and maximize the time after this election to prepare for the next one."Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.), who until earlier this year chaired the Intelligence committee and steered the panel’s years-long investigation into the Kremlin’s 2016 meddling, said national security officials and lawmakers are “always concerned” that their warnings will be tuned out by the American public. But he added, “The more specificity that we provide them the better off we are.”He noted that the federal government, specifically intelligence and national security leaders, released much more information about election threats this year compared with the past.“That’s not necessarily always good, but in this particular case it was probably helpful,” Burr said. "Every election cycle we get a little stronger in our election security.”Kevin McCarthy entered Tuesday's House Republican leadership elections in a stronger position than ever before.McCarthy, who took over as the top House Republican last year following the crushing Democratic wave of 2018, was unanimously reelected as minority leader after he helped lead the GOP to surprising pickups of seats this year. His top deputies will also remain in their posts next year. House Minority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) and Republican Conference Chair Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) were both reelected to their posts without opposition. And Rep. Tom Emmer of Minnesota also won another two-year term leading the House GOP’s campaign arm, following the party’s surprisingly successful election cycle. Republicans are convinced that with Joe Biden in the White House, they can win back the majority in 2022. That would put McCarthy in a prime position to make a play for the speaker's gavel, long a dream job for the California Republican.“Republican success two weeks ago was a historic expansion of our party. I couldn't be more proud of this team,” McCarthy said in a statement before the elections for the top party positions. “Our focus now is forward-looking, and this conference is completely united and energized to build on our movement and deliver results for the American people.”House Republicans met in-person, despite the pandemic, on Tuesday — in a Capitol Hill hotel, thanks to a waiver from Washington, D.C., officials — to pick their leadership team. Leadership candidates pitched themselves to their colleagues during speeches in the Capitol Monday evening.There are still 10 House races that haven’t been called or are heading toward recounts, but Republicans have gained at least nine seats so far, and that number is likely to grow. During the 117th Congress, House Democrats will be left with the smallest margin of control for either party in nearly 20 years."I don't know about all of you, but we are so close that I can taste the majority," said Rep. Jim Banks (R-Ind.), who formally nominated McCarthy for GOP leader. "And there is nobody we have to thank more for being in this position at this time than Kevin McCarthy."McCarthy, 55, pushed to recruit more women and minorities to run as Republicans throughout the cycle, a move that was vindicated on Election Day as those candidates drove the GOP gains. There will now be at least 28 women in the GOP conference. Despite Democrats having a clear fundraising advantage, McCarthy raised a total of $103 million this cycle for his challengers and incumbents. And even though the coronavirus pandemic dramatically altered the campaign season, McCarthy still spent more than 100 days on the road doing events this year, visits that earned him goodwill inside his conference.In notable ways, McCarthy’s internal standing is more assured now than it was in 2015, when the California Republican was forced to withdraw his bid to become speaker following then-Speaker John Boehner’s (R-Ohio) resignation. At that time, conservative GOP hardliners derailed McCarthy’s rise to the speaker’s chair, clearing the way for Paul Ryan’s ascension instead and raising questions about McCarthy’s future. Now those conservatives have nothing but praise for McCarthy, thanks in part to his close relationship with President Donald Trump, and Ryan has long since left Congress. There is no other Republican who could — or would — challenge him for leadership at this time.McCarthy will also be buoyed by a big freshman class that owes its allegiance to him. “If you look at, including retirements, we’re gonna have almost 40 [new members],” said Rep. Steve Stivers (R-Ohio.) “And they basically understand that McCarthy helped get them here. They’re going to be loyal to him.”“Kevin has done a tremendous job holding everyone together,” added Rep. Richard Hudson of North Carolina, who is in line to become Republican Conference secretary. “I’ve never seen our conference so unified and optimistic about its future.”But McCarthy also faces potential headaches in the next Congress from freshman lawmakers like Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.), who has pushed elements of the QAnon conspiracy theory and has already clashed with some of her future Republican colleagues.Over the past two years, McCarthy worked hard to unite the party and win over his former rivals. He helped conservative Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), who challenged McCarthy for minority leader in 2018, secure the top GOP spot on the Judiciary Committee. McCarthy also temporarily placed Jordan on the Intelligence Committee during the high-profile impeachment hearings — a coveted role for Jordan, one of Trump’s fiercest defenders.Those moves won McCarthy plaudits from the conference. Before the Nov. 3 election, Jordan vowed to back McCarthy for GOP leader even if Republicans lost seats, as was widely expected.McCarthy is also credited with helping elect a record-breaking number of GOP women to the House. In a break from the past, he and Scalise both got involved in primary races involving female candidates. And while the National Republican Congressional Committee doesn’t pick sides in primaries, Emmer made recruiting more women and minorities a top priority.“To have Kevin McCarthy and Steve Scalise double down on their support, I think it was a sea change,” Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.), who launched a PAC dedicated solely to electing more GOP women, said in an interview after the election.McCarthy, one of Trump’s closest allies on the Hill, has received criticism for echoing the president’s refusal to concede his loss in the presidential race. "President Trump won this election, so everyone who's listening, do not be quiet," McCarthy said during an appearance on Fox News last week, a statement that was widely panned in the media.McCarthy, however, has refused to back away from Trump, saying the president’s so-far fruitless legal challenges have to be allowed to play out. Other Republicans, particularly in the Senate, have slowly and cautiously started acknowledging that Joe Biden will likely be sworn in on Jan. 20. Scalise, also 55, remains a potential successor to McCarthy one day. The two work well together, although they have different operating styles. Scalise raised more than $60 million this cycle, and he has earned respect throughout the caucus after surviving a shooting at a GOP congressional baseball practice. Scalise also forged his own close relationship with Trump, which has played well in the GOP conference.Cheney, 54, will continue serving as the highest-ranking woman in the GOP. And she has proven she isn’t afraid to speak out when she disagrees with members of her own party.Some thought Cheney, who has been critical of Trump on the coronavirus and foreign policy, was positioning herself for a rise in leadership in the event of a Trump loss. But her statements spurred a backlash from conservatives, with some of them calling for Cheney to be challenged for her leadership post. No one, however, stepped up, and the Wyoming Republican will continue as the No. 3 House Republican unopposed.“Our entire conference is unified and ready for the challenges ahead of us," Cheney said in a statement. "The battle for the majority in 2022 will be real and competitive, but it’s one we’re ready for and one we have to win because the future of our country is at stake.”Three other Republicans ran for spots in leadership unopposed: Rep. Mike Johnson of Louisiana, head of the conservative Republican Study Committee, was selected to serve as vice chair of the conference; Hudson, a deputy whip, won his bid for conference secretary; and Rep. Gary Palmer of Alabama secured another two-year term as policy chair.The Republican Study Committee will also select a new chair on Thursday. Banks is running unopposed. With the party largely united — and feeling good about the GOP’s prospects in two years — there is expected to be zero drama during Tuesday’s leadership elections.“[McCarthy] has cemented his leadership, not just for right now, but for a long time to come,” Banks said.This is the year Black Lives Matter grew from a grassroots, ad-hoc agitator to a potential political powerhouse. And with Joe Biden as president-elect, its leaders are seeking to expand their influence beyond the streets — and into the corridors of Washington. The summer of protests against racial injustice and police violence brought millions to the streets under the banner of Black Lives Matter. It also gave the international movement significant corporate and political muscle, which leaders used to launch a nationwide voter mobilization effort, registering and turning out millions of first-time voters. Armed with an infusion of cash, they launched a political action committee in October — a move that signals their readiness to deal in the mainstream political arena. Next on their agenda: Barnstorming Georgia to get out the vote for the Senate runoffs on Jan. 5. The control of the Senate is on the line and with it, any hopes for the sweeping reforms of the Black Lives Matter political agenda. “The ballot is actually an essential tool to our movement,” Black Lives Matter co-founder Patrisse Cullors said in an interview. “We are both marching and protesting. And we are going to the voting booth. Those are multiple tools in our toolbox to change our system.”But changing the system won’t be easy. As an organization, Black Lives Matter deliberately eschews a central leadership infrastructure, which makes forming consensus around their policy goals more complicated. It doesn’t help, either, that there is growing animosity among Democrats toward the movement. Many blame calls to defund the police — one of activists’ central talking points — for their down ballot losses. Meanwhile, Black Lives Matter leaders argue Democrats aren’t pushing hard enough with criminal justice reform, coronavirus relief and a major police funding overhaul. "Black Lives Matter, through media and social media, can organize marches all across the world,” said Illinois Rep. Bobby Rush, a former Black Panther. “However, can Black Lives Matter get a bill passed in the House of Representatives? No, I don’t think so."The BREATHE Act is one example of this dynamic in play. In July, leaders with the Movement for Black Lives, a coalition of more than 50 social justice organizations affiliated with the Black Lives Matter movement, unveiled the four-part legislative proposal, which calls for mitigating police violence through divestment from law enforcement and investment in communities of color. The proposal was backed by Reps. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.) and Ayanna Pressley (D-Mass.), but efforts to get it on the DNC platform in August failed. It remains atop the movement’s list of legislative priorities.The George Floyd Justice in Policing Act, drafted in response to the police killings of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor, represents Democrats’ efforts to meet protesters’ demands halfway. The bipartisan bill, introduced by Congressional Black Caucus chair Karen Bass (D-Calif.), would end qualified immunity in civil rights suits against police, form national standards for officers' use of force and establish a database to track officer offenses. It passed the House in June and is unlikely to pass the Senate, which drafted its own unsuccessful version. Jessica Byrd, a political strategist and lead organizer with the Movement for Black Lives, said the bill is a positive sign but “not enough,” because it does not address police budgets or the harm wrought on overpoliced communities, which tend to be communities of color.“The idea that you need to make murder illegal when murder is already illegal, is ridiculous,” Byrd said. “We aren't going to take our eyes off of that. And we're not going to allow people to tinker around the edges and tell us that it's progress.”“We want to be heard and our agenda prioritized”In the weeks leading up to Election Day, lead organizers with the Movement for Black Lives strategized how they would respond to its outcome. If Joe Biden lost, leaders and strategists said, they planned to focus on local races, fighting to elect reform-minded mayors, city and county commissioners. If he won, they would spend the first 100 days of his administration urging him to enact reforms that millions of protesters had been calling for in the streets. Hours after the presidential race was called, Cullors sent Biden and Kamala Harris a letter requesting a meeting. In it, Cullors made it clear that she and movement leaders intended to hold their administration accountable to their demands. “We want to be heard and our agenda to be prioritized,” Cullors wrote. “We issue these expectations not just because Black people are the most consistent and reliable voters for Democrats, but also because Black people are truly living in crisis in a nation that was built on our subjugation.”Leaders with the Movement for Black Lives say they plan to push the Biden-Harris administration to immediately end cash bail and grant amnesty to protesters targeted by the National Guard under President Trump. Any stimulus bill Congress passes, they argue, should specifically provide relief to the Black, Latino and Native communities disproportionately impacted by the coronavirus. In the meantime, Cullors said she’s yet to hear back from Biden or Harris.Tlaib, who supports Black Lives Matter, said she is optimistic about the chances of police reform passing under a Biden administration. The Black Lives Matter movement will not let up on pressuring a Biden administration, she said. “Growing up in Detroit and one of the most beautiful blackest cities in the country, one thing it taught me is that transformative change happens when we organize in the streets and it reaches Congress and it reaches the White House,” said Tlaib. “I'm an extension of that movement work.”“You can’t stop the revolution”This year, the movement helped secure a number of electoral wins, which, its leaders say, proves their political value to the Democratic Party. The height of the Black Lives Matter protests over the summer brought a surge in Democratic voter registrations by about 2 million, according to an analysis by TargetSmart. In addition to galvanizing record turnout in predominantly Black cities like Milwaukee, Philadelphia and Detroit, organizers in Georgia helped register more than 800,000 new voters to help deliver the state for Biden. In January, they’ll be sending one of their own to Congress. Cori Bush, a nurse from Ferguson, Mo., will be the first Black Lives Matter activist elected to national office. Two other progressive candidates heading for Washington, Jamaal Bowman (D-N.Y.) and Ritchie Torres (D-NY), are progressive allies of the movement. What’s more, nearly a dozen major cities also elected progressive district attorneys, including Los Angeles, where incumbent Jackie Lacey was unseated by George Gascón, who ran on a platform promising to stop trying juveniles as adults and end the death penalty. In St. Louis, Kim Gardner, a circuit attorney who was among those who ran with the backing of the Black Lives Matter movement, said that protests in the city in the wake of the police killings of Floyd and Taylor “energized voters to vote and understand that these local prosecutor elections are important.”“It reaffirmed the accountability of local prosecutors as well as the activist community to make sure they hold electeds accountable for what we know needs to be reformed,” Gardner said, citing police accountability as one of the top issues she’s vowed to address. Any chance for Democrats to pass sweeping reforms, however, hinges largely on their control of the Senate, which is why Black Lives Matter activists are planning to travel to Georgia in the coming weeks. Democrats face considerable odds in flipping both Senate seats blue. That won’t stop their lobbying, said Maurice Mitchell, director of the Working Families Party, during a press call last week.“Clearly, if [Mitch] McConnell is in control of the Senate, we anticipate that there will be some obstruction there,” Mitchell said. “But we're going to — on the local, state and federal level — continue to push our demands, and then call on [Biden] to do the things that the president could do even without the ability to pull on the levers of the legislature.”Biden has recognized the role that Black voters played in his election and promised to return the favor in his presidential victory speech. His “Lift Every Voice” plan for Black America aims to address racial disparities in health, the economy, education and criminal justice. His approach to police reform involves reinvestment in the COPS program, which calls for police departments to hire officers that reflect the racial diversity of their communities — a stark contrast from the invest-divest framework activists have been calling for. His office did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Still, experts maintain that Black Lives Matter has already made significant inroads even if they are not immediately noticeable. In the long run, some argue, any legislation passed may very likely have its roots in the movement work completed this year.“Biden and Harris can advocate for major reforms of policing while still appearing moderate by saying they oppose defunding the police,” said Omar Wasow, an assistant professor of politics at Princeton University. “For some more militant activists, this might seem like a failure. But if Biden and Harris have been pulled further towards more significant reforms by the Black Lives Matter protests, then the activism made an important difference.”Yet, there are still concerns that the movement’s gains could diminish even after the summer of protest, despite the bolstered national profile and increased support. Rush said he envisions a future in which Black Lives Matter, if it continues on its current trajectory, becomes “its own political apparatus” that will in turn make it “more compromising in its goals and in its virtues.”“It happens all the time in every social movement,” Rush explained. “Every social movement carries with it the seeds of its own disintegration or its own disempowerment … [activists] become less relevant as agents of change. That’s just the reality. They gotta go through that.” Still, Rush said, he feels that even as the movement’s influence waxes and wanes, he’s still optimistic about the progress made.“You can stop a revolutionary but you can’t stop the revolution,” Rush said, invoking the words of his late comrade Fred Hampton. “Revolutionaries have a short lifespan. Revolutionary organizations have a short lifespan. Revolutions don’t.” Laura Barrón-López contributed to this report.A plurality of voters believe President Donald Trump should immediately admit defeat to President-elect Joe Biden, according to a new POLITICO/Morning Consult poll, while just under half of Republican respondents said Trump should concede the 2020 election if he cannot eventually produce evidence to support his baseless claims of widespread voter fraud.The poll, published Tuesday, reports that 46 percent of registered voters think Trump should concede to Biden “right away.” That total includes 72 percent of Democrats surveyed, 43 percent of independents surveyed and 17 percent of Republicans surveyed.Another 32 percent of registered voters say Trump should concede the election “eventually if he is unable to back up” his mass fraud claims. In favor of that position are 21 percent of Democratic respondents, 34 percent of independent respondents and 45 percent of Republican respondents.But 12 percent of registered voters polled believe Trump should refuse to concede to Biden “no matter what” — including 3 percent of Democrats polled, 8 percent of independents polled and 27 percent of Republicans polled — while 9 percent of registered voters surveyed say they do not know or have no opinion.The results of the survey come two weeks after Election Day, as Trump continues to mount legal challenges to election results in several swing states and repeats his unsubstantiated allegations that he was cheated out of a second term.Despite Trump’s defiance, congressional Republicans have shown some signs of accepting the election’s outcome in recent days, with a few of the party’s lawmakers acknowledging Biden as the winner and a group of high-ranking GOP senators arguing that the president-elect should be provided intelligence briefings.Compared to the previous version of the POLITICO/Morning Consult poll published last week, however, roughly the same majority of Republican respondents do not have confidence that the election was conducted properly. Last week’s survey showed that 60 percent of registered voters thought the election was “free and fair,” and 34 percent of registered voters thought it was not — including 70 percent of Republicans polled.Those numbers remain mostly unchanged in the latest survey, with 62 percent of registered voters saying the election was “free and fair,” 33 percent of registered voters saying it was not, and 67 percent of Republicans polled saying it was not.The POLITICO/Morning Consult poll was conducted Nov. 13-16, surveying 1,994 registered voters with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 2 percentage points. Morning Consult is a global data intelligence company, delivering insights on what people think in real time by surveying tens of thousands across the globe every single day. More details on the poll and its methodology can be found in these two documents: Toplines | CrosstabsThe Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled 5-2 on Tuesday that observers’ rights to watch ballot counting was sufficient in Philadelphia, rejecting a claim from President Donald Trump’s campaign that poll observers didn’t get “meaningful access.”The Trump campaign argued that observers were stationed too far away to actually see the process of counting votes, and a lower court initially agreed with them, ordering that they be allowed closer to the process. The state Supreme Court, which had previously rejected other Republican arguments, vacated that lower court order on Tuesday.“We conclude the Board did not act contrary to law in fashioning its regulations governing the positioning of candidate representatives during the precanvassing and canvassing process, as the Election Code does not specify minimum distance parameters for the location of such representatives,” the court wrote in its majority order. “Critically, we find the Board’s regulations as applied herein were reasonable in that they allowed candidate representatives to observe the Board conducting its activities as prescribed under the Election Code.”Word of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court decision came just as a federal judge in Williamsport, Pa., was suspending a key hearing on a separate Trump campaign election lawsuit because of a problem with phone lines set up to listen to the session. In that hearing, Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, who took the helm of the Trump legal team personally, argued that the state’s election tallies should be tossed entirely.Giuliani reacted to the decision by saying it underscored why federal court intervention was needed.“I think the [Pennsylvania] Supreme Court has created a new equal protection claim,” Giuliani said, in comments heard on a video feed to a nearby press room. “They essentially ruled presence is enough, you don’t have to see them. … While we’re sitting here a new equal protection claim emerged.”Giuliani said that all 50 states have some provision for election observers and that the Pennsylvania court was disadvantaging the state’s voters by essentially gutting the requirement.But a dissenting opinion in the state Supreme Court case rejected an argument that even if observers could not meaningfully watch the process, it didn’t mean ballots should be disqualified. “Short of demonstrated fraud, the notion that presumptively valid ballots cast by the Pennsylvania electorate would be disregarded based on isolated procedural irregularities that have been redressed — thus disenfranchising potentially thousands of voters — is misguided,” Chief Justice Thomas G. Saylor wrote in his dissent, which was joined by one other justice.Trump himself has used the fight over the observation process in Pennsylvania and elsewhere to falsely inflate a narrative of massive electoral fraud. “They wouldn’t let our Poll Watchers and Observers into the Counting Rooms,” he tweeted on Saturday. “We win on that alone!” Instead, much of the legal effort from Trump and Republican allies has come up empty-handed.Josh Gerstein reported from Williamsburg, Pa.Democrats and Republicans had a shared message for social media companies after the 2016 election: root out foreign interference, or Washington will step in.Fast forward to 2020, and while there’s bipartisan anger over how Facebook and Twitter handled the election, there’s little agreement on what the companies did wrong. This month’s election has Republican and Democratic lawmakers more at odds than ever over what role — if any — the companies should play in patrolling contentious political disputes online.The partisan tension will be on full display Tuesday as the CEOs of Facebook and Twitter testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee in the first congressional examination of their performance since President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. And as Biden prepares to govern potentially with a still-divided Congress, it will provide a preview of the difficulties ahead for any Washington effort to turn rhetoric against the social media companies into policy.Republicans have skewered the social media companies in recent weeks for cracking down on false and misleading election-related claims by President Donald Trump and his allies, reiterating allegations that Silicon Valley is biased against conservatives. Democrats, meanwhile, have criticized the tech titans for not doing more to limit the spread of political disinformation by the president and others that’s increasingly rooted domestically.Lawmakers plan to use Tuesday’s hearing to solidify those positions.“I want to focus on making certain that they don’t choose winners and losers in 2022, 2024 ... These guys have got to realize that they are not God and they have no right to be blocking someone’s free speech,” Sen. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) said Monday, referring to actions the companies took to limit the spread of false and misleading statements by Trump and his allies.Democrats plan to hammer the companies for not taking more actions against those and other posts.“I recognize the steps — really, baby steps — you have taken so far,” Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) says in his prepared remarks for the hearing. “But destructive, violence-inciting misinformation is still a scourge on both your platforms. You must do much more.”The division marks a sharp contrast to the largely bipartisan post-mortem that took place in the wake of the 2016 elections, when lawmakers across the political spectrum condemned Silicon Valley companies for failing to thwart Russian operatives seeking to sow discord online. Though they at times disagreed about the extent to which Trump benefited from those efforts, there was a bipartisan acknowledgment that foreign adversaries shouldn’t be able to weaponize social media to meddle in U.S. politics.When Senate Republicans hauled in executives from Facebook, Twitter and Google in 2017 to testify on Capitol Hill for the first time about Russian interference on social media during the 2016 elections, they were met by broad praise from their Democratic counterparts.“I’m very proud of the work we’re doing on this issue, I hope it will continue, and I hope that you and your team see me and my team as loyal partners in this effort,” Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on crime and terrorim, said in his opening remarks at a hearing that October. Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), who chaired the panel at the time, called the topic “the national security challenge of the 21st century.”But when social media companies started taking more action against American-made misinformation targeting the elections, as opposed to from foreign adversaries, the parties found they weren’t so aligned. Republicans bristled when posts from conservatives were labeled or taken down and accused the companies of partisan bias. Democrats watched deceptive and incendiary posts stay up for days or weeks and argued that the companies were allowing dangerous content to avoid angering the administration.It has gotten to the point that there is a debate between the parties as to whether Tuesday’s hearing should be occurring at all.“This hearing is not a serious one. It is a political sideshow — a public tar and feathering … The fact is that the purpose of today’s hearing is to bully and browbeat you from taking even more responsible action by threatening cuts to Section 230,” Blumenthal says in his prepared statement.Tech executives have heard the partisan war cries before. Just days before the election, in fact, the Republican-led Senate Commerce Committee held a hearing of its own with the CEOs of Facebook, Google and Twitter that went deep on the bias charges.“Democrats often say that we don't remove enough content and Republicans often say we remove too much,” Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said then. “The fact that both sides criticize us doesn't mean that we're getting this right, but it does mean that there are real disagreements about where the limits of online speech should be.”Facebook and Twitter plan to tell lawmakers that they are still working on their efforts to stop misinformation and that they do not make decisions about content based on political affiliations.“Our Twitter rules are not based on ideology or a particular set of beliefs. We believe strongly in being impartial, and we strive to enforce our Twitter rules fairly,” Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey writes in prepared remarks.Social media companies are in a tough spot, but it also is a spot of their own making, said Graham Brookie, the director of the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab.“I think that the tech companies are in an unwinnable position,” Brookie said. Even so, he argued, the companies have put themselves in that position by creating sprawling platforms that had relatively few checks until after the 2016 election.“This is a logical extension of where their business has put them, right in the middle of everything, as a critical resource for information, and in a way that has removed any number of gateways to reliable information,” Brookie said.Social media critics have long argued that Facebook, Twitter and Google have engagement-driven and attention-sucking business models that reward divisive or controversial content that goes viral quickly. The companies, meanwhile, said maintaining civil discourse and enforcing policies fairly is in their long-term interest.The partisan rancor and conflicting demands have led to rapidly changing policies and reversal on the part of the social media companies. Take the recent decision to halt the spread of an unsubstantiated New York Post article about the foreign business affairs of Biden’s son, Hunter Biden. Independent misinformation researchers praised Facebook and Twitter for implementing policies to hamper the sharing of hacked materials, but, after Republicans unleashed a torrent of criticism on the companies over the course of a day, Twitter reversed course.They have also expanded their policies since the election in response to a swarm of political misinformation, largely propagated by Trump and his allies. Facebook and Twitter have slapped labels on an increasing number of Trump’s posts, for example. Facebook has also increased efforts to promote accurate information; for example, putting the results of the election at the top of user profiles and in the newsfeed to give it greater visibility.For Silicon Valley, tuning out the political noise is not an option. For one, the companies have spent the last four years heeding calls from Washington to do better after bungling election misinformation and interference during the last election cycle. And secondly, Washington is increasingly talking about revising the law that protects them from lawsuits over what their users post or how they moderate content.At Tuesday’s hearing lawmakers are expected to again raise the specter of rolling back that legal shield, Section 230, which Silicon Valley credits with helping create the internet. Policymakers have floated tweaking those protections to address a whole host of issues, including allegations of bias and concerns about harmful online activity, like terrorist propaganda, illegal drug sales and child exploitation.While there’s bipartisan interest in taking aim at the legal shield — both Trump and Biden have called for its repeal — it remains unclear if there’s any path forward for legislation targeting it that seeks to address the divisive issue of political misinformation online.Some lawmakers say they believe even a divided Congress could find some common ground.“There is agreement that there need to be rules of the road put in place, and dealing with Section 230 is going to be one of those requirements,” Blackburn said.One potential area for bipartisan compromise: legislation requiring companies to disclose more information about their policies and to be more transparent about their enforcement actions.Democratic Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) and Republican Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) earlier this year unveiled a bill that would require platforms to clearly outline what their terms of service allow, to alert users of any enforcement actions against them and to allow for appeals of those decisions.While such a move would fail to settle disputes over how aggressive companies should be in policing political speech, it may be one of the few areas all sides can agree on. Zuckerberg even broadly supported such a concept, when he testified in October that he’d support an “update” to Section 230 and voiced support for recent legislative proposals centered around transparency. Dorsey likewise backed the general idea.But even those smaller compromises may get little air time during a hearing that’s sure to feature it’s fair share of partisan sniping.“The hearing will likely showcase that even though both parties are angry about the status quo in tech, they’re still very far apart on the right path for reform,” said Matt Perault, director of Duke University's Center on Science and Technology Policy and former public policy director at Facebook.The election was two weeks ago, and the key state projections that made it clear that Joe Biden is president-elect are now 10 days old. But Donald Trump is still coursing through your veins, isn’t he?All the signatures of Trump intoxication — the rush of indignation, the paranoid agitation, the hallucinatory blur of endless news cycles — are still powerfully in effect in American public life. It is one last surprise — for anyone still credulous enough to be surprised by the 45th president — that he is managing to tighten his grip on the consciousness of those who loathe him, no less than his partisans, even as he about to become the 45th former president. This obsession is the most unifying dimension of a divided political culture. Our lights are on, but we’re not home. Our mind is not our own. Might as well face it: We’re addicted to Trump.Rehabilitation from Trump addiction — a decisive break from the neurotic fixations and contempt-driven values of this presidency — is among the most urgent tasks for the incoming Biden administration. Even those who hope that Trump returns to the White House in four years surely could use some quiet time to reclaim their inner space. But the turbulent post-election transition of power has illuminated how hard the corresponding psychic transition will be. Trump addiction is mostly metaphor, though one wonders whether it has some literal component. Perhaps there is a surge of dopamine that comes when hurling expletives at the screen, no matter whether the target is Trump or Jake Tapper talking about Trump.If national detox is the aim, there may be wisdom to be gleaned from the experience of the most famous addict of his generation: What could Keith Richards teach us about letting go of Donald Trump?The answer is not that the nation needs to check into a secret clinic in Switzerland for blood-replacement therapy. The Rolling Stones guitarist explained in his 2010 memoir, “Life,” that this story (which was circulated as an article of faith in my adolescence) is an urban myth. But in this book and in interviews he talked about how in the late 1970s he weaned himself from a decadelong heroin addiction in ways that genuinely are relevant to how the nation could wean itself from Trump addiction.By the time Richards decided he needed to get clean, after an arrest in Toronto and with his family and musical life spiraling, the culture of addiction had seeped into nearly every aspect of his daily life and relationships. Junkies were all around him, bonded by a shared assumption that nothing mattered more than the next high and there was no escape from self-abasement. He declared independence by declaring indifference. That was, in turn, a declaration of superiority.“You know, after 10 years on that stuff, you live in this other world, where everybody you know’s one,” Richards once said. “So the cats would come around and try to sell you stuff, so I started to get off — my high for a while was watching their faces when I said ‘no.’ ‘Hey man, just a taste, man.’ And just when they couldn’t make a sale just to watch their face, that would be my high.”There is a chance to borrow Richards’ technique during the Trump-Biden transition. It starts with a recognition that Trump’s power is not political in the traditional sense but psychological. It relies on an insight he probably first gleaned as a toddler but sharpened through decades in New York’s celebrity culture that once you provoke someone into an emotional response they are in a contest on your terms. So he learned how to surprise, to entertain, to confuse and distort, to offend. As he moved to the political arena, Trump exploited one more psychological reality: His supporters are attracted to him precisely because he so easily outrages his opponents.This means that Trump’s power — just like Keith Richards’ drug transactions — requires two sides to work. His hold on supporters will wane at the same time his hold on political foes and the news media does. Just say no and watch their faces.This path is easier to describe than actually to travel. Trump is unsettling because his formidable psychological power is harnessed to the real power of the presidency. But that is ending. Biden, with his understated response to most of Trump’s recent words and actions, seems to understand that there is no need to enhance his psychological power when his real power is slipping away so quickly.The most extreme scenarios are now pretty well exposed as imaginary goblins. What if Trump simply refuses to leave the White House and attempts a Pinochet-style coup d’etat? That’s not going to happen and if he tried he would be escorted away by Secret Service.But what about his executive branch firings since Election Day, and how he is trying to salt the top ranks of the civil service with his loyalists? That is real power, that will have to be systematically reviewed and reversed as soon as Biden has real power.Could Trump exit with a wave of pardons of associates and possibly even himself? This is a hard one, since it would be a clear abuse of power that Biden and Democrats might feel constitutionally obliged to fight in court, even as this would guarantee a continuation of Trump-era obsessions.But many of Trump’s transition provocations are almost entirely psychological. They don’t have any concrete reality except in the way people react to them. Aren’t statements asserting without evidence that the election was stolen a flagrant violation of historic norms and basic integrity? Yes they are. And your point is ... ? Trump is Trump. He vaulted into national politics on a discredited conspiracy theory about Barack Obama not being a citizen and it’s hoping for too much if one expects punctiliousness at the exit.Will Trump follow precedent and attend Biden’s inauguration? Who knows, although there is certain to be some extended drama over the question. More to the point: Who cares? Trump long ago devoted his life to being Trump-like. Everyone else has to decide whether they are going to reclaim their own lives, or whether they are going to keep feeding Trump’s addiction, which is all about feeding America’s Trump addiction. No doubt there will be occasional relapses. There will be plenty of political actors and commentators, many of whom have profited handsomely from the Trump years, with incentives to undermine willpower. C’mon, just a taste?Richards’s memoir tell us that the first days are the hardest. He describes raw fingers from clawing at walls, soiled trousers from losing control of his bowels, muscle spasms that are out of control, and “a sense of self-loathing that takes a while to rub off.”Beating Trump addiction won’t be as hard as that. But the advantages of getting clean may be similar. “Most junkies become idiots. That’s what finally turned me around. We’ve got only one subject in mind, which is the dope,” Richards writes. ”They’re just very boring people. Worse, a lot of these are very bright people, and we all kind of know we’ve been hoodwinked ...”Now at Amazon.com: insulin and inhalers.The online colossus opened an online pharmacy Tuesday that allows customers to order medication or prescription refills, and have them delivered to their front door in a couple of days.The potential impact of Amazon's arrival in the pharmaceutical space rippled through that sector immediately. The stocks of CVS Health Corp., Walgreens and Rite Aid all tumbled Tuesday.The big chains rely on their pharmacies for a steady flow of shoppers who may also grab a snack or shampoo or groceries on the way out. All have upped online services and touted their abilities to deliver prescriptions and other goods as the COVID-19 pandemic has pushed more consumers to stay home. But Amazon.com has mastered these things, and its online store is infinitely larger, with millions of loyal shoppers already buying books, TVs and just about anything else.“The news represents a disruption to the system and competitive threat that will likely shift scripts away from the retail channel," analysts at Citi Research said in a note.Amazon has a history of disruption. Launched in 1995 as an online book store, it pushed other booksellers to sell online. But those that couldn't keep up went out of business, like the Borders bookstore chain, which disappeared in 2011.Its purchase of Whole Foods three years ago sent supermarket stocks spiraling, but many have been able to hold their own against Amazon, offering home delivery and curbside pickup of groceries.Amazon has also become a threat to shipping companies, delivering more than half of its own packages itself. Vans stamped with the Amazon logo have become as common a sight as the UPS truck.The company said its online pharmacy will offer commonly prescribed medications in the U.S., including creams, pills, as well as medications that need to stay refrigerated, like insulin. Shoppers have to set up a profile on Amazon's website and have their doctors send prescriptions there. It won't ship medications that have a high risk of being abused, like some opioids.Most insurance is accepted, Amazon said. But Prime members who don't have insurance can also buy generic or brand name drugs from Amazon for a discount. They can also get discounts at 50,000 physical pharmacies around the country at Costco, CVS, Walgreens, Walmart and other stores.That could be appealing to the uninsured or people who have plans that make them pay a high deductible first before their coverage starts, said John Boylan, an analyst who covers Walgreens for Edward Jones.He said Amazon’s move will mostly affect smaller drugstores that don’t have either the retail giant's purchasing power or deals that major drugstore chains have with insurers to funnel patients to their stores for prescriptions.Amazon has eyed the health care industry for some time. Two years ago, it spent $750 million to buy online pharmacy PillPack, which organizes medication in packets by what time and day they need to be taken. Amazon said that PillPack will continue, focusing on shipping medication to people with chronic conditions.CVS and Walgreens, which have opened thousands of drugstores nationwide to get closer to customers, have been been trying to adjust to the rise of online shopping by offering same-day deliveries in many markets.Walgreens also has a partnership with FedEx for a delivery service that takes a day or two. Walgreens CEO Stefano Pessina told analysts in July that the company has seen “unprecedented demand” for both home delivery and online services as the COVID-19 pandemic unfolded earlier this year.CVS and Walgreens did not respond to requests for comment Tuesday.Shares of both companies were down 7% and more than 8% respectively in late-morning trading while broader indexes slipped. Rite Aid Corp.'s stock plunged more than 14%. Amazon shares edged up less than 1%.Sen. Lindsey Graham said Tuesday that he had spoken to officials in Arizona and Nevada about his concerns over mail-in voting in the 2020 election, a day after Georgia’s chief election official accused him of suggesting that some legally mailed ballots be discarded.“Yeah, I talked to Arizona, I talked to Nevada,” Graham (R-S.C.) told reporters in the Capitol, adding that he was speaking with the officials in his capacity “as a United States senator who’s worried about the integrity of the election process.”Pressed later on whether he had spoken specifically with the secretaries of state in Arizona and Nevada, Graham — a top congressional ally of President Donald Trump — said he “talked to [Arizona] Gov. [Doug] Ducey, and I can’t remember who I talked to in Nevada. But what I’m trying to find out is how do you verify mail-in ballots.”The initial remarks from Graham, the chairman of the powerful Senate Judiciary Committee, provoked some confusion after Arizona Secretary of State Katie Hobbs tweeted that she and the senator had not spoken.Nevada Secretary of State Barbara Cegavske released a similar statement saying she had not spoken to Graham “or any other members of Congress regarding the 2020 general election in Nevada or my role in the post-election certification process.”Graham’s comments also came as Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, a Republican, repeated his allegations that the senator had pressured him to toss out legal ballots when they spoke last Friday. Graham has denied that charge, saying he and Raffensperger had a “very pleasant” conversation about the state’s signature verification process.“I really just got off the call and I said I would circle back, and I’d talk to counsel, and I’d get back to him,” Raffensperger said Tuesday on “CBS This Morning,” describing his phone call with Graham. “And we just decided the best action was not to get back and re-engage.” Raffensperger said he thought Graham was calling to discuss the state’s two Senate runoff elections in January — which will decide control of the chamber — but “when it went down this other path, I think the best thing was to just disengage and move forward.”Graham and most Republican lawmakers have joined with the White House in refusing to acknowledge Joe Biden as president-elect, while Trump’s campaign continues to mount legal challenges to the election results in several swing states.Arizona, Georgia and Nevada were all 2020 battlegrounds that were called in Biden’s favor, though Georgia is undertaking a hand recount of its ballots from the presidential election.Burgess Everett contributed to this report.Joe Biden on Tuesday added a slew of top staffers to his White House team with sterling Democratic credentials. But one of his appointments has a line on her resume that would also make Republicans proud: Onetime clerk to Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito.Dana Remus, who most recently served as general counsel to the Biden campaign, will become counsel to the president in the new administration. Before joining the campaign, Remus worked as the General Counsel of the Obama Foundation, and as the Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel for Ethics during the Obama administration.A Biden transition official described Remus as “a distinguished attorney with years of experience serving as counsel to Democratic leaders” who is “fully committed to helping execute President-elect Biden’s bold agenda for our country." But it’s Remus’ experience clerking for Alito in 2008 that could prove especially valuable to the Biden administration as it gears up for repeated clashes with the Court’s 6 to 3 conservative majority in the years ahead. Alito recently gave a speech to the Federalist Society airing grievances with the Court’s decisions on same-sex marriage, abortion, and public health restrictions enacted during the pandemic, signaling an appetite to revisit those precedents and roll them back now that President Trump’s three picks have been confirmed to the bench. Remus — who also clerked for 3rd Circuit judge and Reagan appointee Anthony Scirica — defended Alito against accusations of sexism in a 2013 letter to the Washington Post, calling him “a good man who serves every day with humility, dedication and incredible intelligence and insight.” Marc Elias, who has been working with Remus on a legal cases related to the 2020 election, said her past work for Alito “speaks to the depth of her intellect and the range of experiences she will bring to the job.” “One of the things that defines the modern presidency is that whatever they prepare for will not be the things they necessarily face,” he said. “What you want in a White House counsel is a person who is able to adapt to any challenges they face.” The White House’s top attorney has played a starring role in the last two presidential administrations, setting the precedent for Remus to play a similarly significant role as she transitions to the West Wing. Under President Barack Obama, White House counsel Bob Bauer served as one of the president’s closest advisers in the tight-knit White House. Under President Donald Trump, then-campaign lawyer Don McGahn nudged Trump to publicly release the list of potential Supreme Court justices in 2016 that paved the way for Trump to win over conservatives, evangelicals and anti-abortion rights groups. Later, as the White House counsel, McGahn sat for more than 30 hours of interviews for the Mueller investigation.In Remus, Biden is getting a trusted ally who is already close to all of his most senior advisers from her time on the campaign and the Obama White House.Close Biden allies expect her to work to ensure the transition starts as quickly as possible. Once installed in the West Wing, they anticipate she will tackle a wide-ranging set of legal issues that every top White House attorney faces, from ethics to national security questions to the vetting of top personnel picks.“The integrity of the legal advisory process has come into serious question during the Trump administration,” said Bauer, who served as an adviser to Biden during the campaign. “I think Dana, as the Biden White House counsel, projects a message about the importance of the legal advisory process, its integrity and its quality.”“What you will wind up finding with her, as with the best White House counsels, is that she will have a much, much broader influence than someone viewed simply as a top-notch lawyer. She will be a counsel in the richest sense of the word,” Bauer added.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Twitter chief executive Jack Dorsey returned to Capitol Hill on Tuesday — virtually, of course — for their latest hours-long grilling from lawmakers angry at alleged abuses by Silicon Valley.But it quickly became clear that the lawmakers themselves remain deeply divided on how the companies should handle political speech.Republicans once again largely focused on accusations that big social media companies systematically censor conservatives, with Exhibit A being efforts by Facebook and Twitter to limit the spread of the New York Post's pre-election reporting on President-elect Joe Biden's son Hunter. Senate Judiciary Chair Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) also raised concerns about whether the tech giants design their platforms to be "addicting" to users.Democrats, meanwhile, said the companies continue to let their platforms propagate falsehoods — including President Donald Trump's claims to have won reelection. And they raised a host of other concerns, including over allegations that tech giants stifle competitors and that the two companies have abused consumers' personal data.These are some key moments that occurred during Tuesday's Judiciary hearing, which was also Zuckerberg's third congressional appearance since July:Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) implored the social media giants not to buckle to Republicans' accusations of bias, arguing that conservatives are the ones with an outsize presence on the platforms.  “The fact of the matter is that these allegations are completely baseless,” Hirono said. “This hearing is a transparent effort by my Republican colleagues to work the refs.” Hirono cited conservative pundit Dan Bongino, whose Facebook page has millions of followers and frequently ranks among the top on the network's engagement charts, as well as other efforts the company has made to appeal to right-leaning users.  “I'm really wondering at what point you will stop giving in to baseless claims of anti-conservative bias and start exercising your control over Facebook to stop driving division,” Hirono said. She also questioned Facebook's and Twitter’s recent efforts to label potentially misleading content and direct people to third-party fact checkers, noting that it has done little to deter Trump from lobbing baseless accusations of voter fraud. Dorsey said it's “not our job” at Twitter to referee election results, “so we are pointing to sources and pillars that have traditionally done this in the past.”  “We believe the labels point to, as you said, a broader conversation that people can see what's happening with the election and with the results,” Dorsey testified, adding that the company is evaluating the effectiveness of its processes. Zuckerberg similarly said Facebook's goal is to “make sure that people have reliable information about the election.” Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) questioned why Facebook, Twitter and Google share information related to harmful content on their platforms, suggesting their efforts reflect a coordinated campaign to suppress conservative points of view. Zuckerberg said the companies "share signals" about material they encounter related to terrorism, child exploitation and foreign election interference. That allows the social networks to more quickly counteract people who often distribute similar harmful content across multiple platforms. Once companies have shared that information, however, each decides on its own how to respond, he added. "It's important to be very clear that that is distinct from the content moderation policies that we or the other companies have," Zuckerberg said. "Once we share intelligence or signals between the companies, each company makes its own assessment of the right way to address and deal with that information."But Hawley leaped onto the coordination as evidence that the companies trade information to censor conservatives, an accusation that all three businesses have repeatedly denied. He accused Facebook of collecting suggestions from Google and Twitter on a software platform called Tasks, which Facebook uses internally to track projects and assignments. "As I understand it, Facebook censorship teams communicate with their counterparts at Twitter and Google and then enter those companies' suggestions for censorship onto the Tasks platform so that Facebook can then follow up with them and effectively coordinate their censorship efforts," Hawley said. Zuckerberg said Facebook doesn't coordinate its content moderation policies with Twitter and Google, though some amount of conversation among people in the same line of work is likely to occur. "I would expect that some level of communication probably happens, but that's different from coordinating what our policies are or responses in specific instances," Zuckerberg said.In addition, Facebook, Twitter and Google have for years been part of the Global Internet Forum to Counter Terrorism, which trades information about terrorist groups spreading propaganda online. Additional members include Microsoft, Pinterest, Amazon and Dropbox.In recent years, the social media platforms have also shared information about foreign actors spreading election-related misinformation so that fraudulent accounts can be removed from multiple platforms. Federal agencies and academic researchers also participate in that exchange of information.GOP Sen. Ben Sasse pushed back on mounting calls by Republican and Democratic lawmakers for Congress to change regulations around how tech companies police content on their sites, warning that such legislation could have vast unintended consequences. The Nebraska Republican said he’s a “skeptic” of how companies moderate user posts, “both because I don’t think the standards are very transparent and I don’t think the execution is very consistent.” The remarks echoed concerns by Republicans who accuse the platforms of unevenly stifling conservative content.“That said,” Sasse continued, "I’m more skeptical than a lot of my colleagues, I think on both sides of the aisle, about whether or not there’s a regulatory fix that will make it better instead of worse.” Republican and Democratic Judiciary leaders alike on Tuesday again called for revamping a crucial set of liability protections, Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, that shield online companies from lawsuits over how they moderate user content. But Sasse said he was puzzled by the eagerness of some of his GOP colleagues to legislate on the issue, particularly given that Democrats are about to take control of the White House. "I especially think it's odd that so many in my party are zealous to do this right now, when you would have an incoming administration of the other party that would be writing the rules and regulations about it,” he said.Utah Republican Sen. Mike Lee ripped into Facebook for appending a fact-checking note to a recent post of his about the integrity of this year’s election, calling it an example of the overbearing policies that have fueled suspicions of social media bias against conservatives. Lee recited a note from the social media company’s voter information center that reads, in part, “Election officials say that voter fraud, which is historically rare, has not affected any outcome in this election.” He said he found it “a little disturbing.”“The tag to me sounds a lot more like state-run media announcing the party line rather than a neutral company, as it purports to be, running an open online forum,” Lee said. Facebook tagged a number of Lee's posts, including one in which he wrote: "Americans deserve a free and fair election. While vote counters must be allowed to do their jobs the American people also need a transparent process so they can trust the final count." The tag on that post reads, "See the results and other info about the 2020 US Election," and links to Facebook’s voter information center.Lee and other Republicans on the committee accused Facebook and Twitter of unequally applying these policies to conservatives and penalizing them for their posts on social media. The companies maintain that they do not make decisions based on the politics of users.Dorsey acknowledged that Twitter made a "mistake" in October when it temporarily suspended Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Mark Morgan from the platform over a tweet about the U.S.-Mexico border wall."We evaluated this tweet again and we found that we were wrong," Dorsey told the committee members. "There was a mistake and it was due to the fact that we had heightened awareness around government accounts during this time."Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) pointed to the Morgan incident as an example of social media companies "taking a very distinctively partisan approach and not a neutral one to election-related content moderation." While companies can make mistakes, he argued, Silicon Valley harbors a bias against conservatives. "What we're going to see today is that mistakes happen a whole lot more, almost entirely, on one side of the political aisle rather than the other," Lee said.In the tweet in late October, Morgan lauded the work of CBP and the Army Corp of Engineers and touted the effectiveness of the border wall with Mexico. He wrote that “every mile helps us stop gang members, murderers, sexual predators and drugs from entering our country.”Twitter initially determined that tweet violated its rules against hateful content but reversed that decision after it was appealed.“This should outrage every American citizen because they didn’t lock me out, they locked you out," Morgan said at the time. "They imposed their own ideology, their own belief system to justify keeping the truth from the American people because it didn’t fit the very obvious and transparent agenda.”Dorsey similarly said his company had erred when it blocked links to the New York Post's Hunter Biden reporting, an issue that Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) raised again during a heated round of questioning.Twitter had to shutter its short-video app Vine because “we found it very difficult to compete,” Dorsey testified — touching on an episode that has attracted the interest of federal antitrust investigators probing Facebook.“We did find it a very, very challenging market to enter, even though we existed prior to our peers,” Dorsey told the senators.Twitter launched Vine — a social networking service where users could upload 6-second, looping videos — in January 2013. A recent House Judiciary Committee investigation found that Zuckerberg ordered employees to cut off Vine’s access to Facebook user data to keep rivals from effectively competing with the social network. Twitter closed down the app in 2016.The Federal Trade Commission is investigating whether Facebook’s moves to cut off data access to rivals like Vine violate antitrust laws. Asked during the hearing about that data cut-off, Zuckerberg said he is “strongly in support” of allowing startups to access Facebook’s user data and transfer information seamless between their products and Facebook’s. “Some of the policies you mention came about not because of startups but because our larger competitors like Google and some of our Chinese rivals from trying to access our systems in order to use their scale to compete with us better and it felt to us, at the time, that wasn’t the intent of what we were trying to enable,” Zuckerberg said.Zuckerberg and Dorsey both said they will keep enforcing their enhanced fact-checking procedures through the January runoffs in Georgia that will determine which party controls the Senate.Both companies implemented toughened policies before the November elections and have moved more aggressively to flag or take down questionable or misleading information. These actions have generated conservative blowback, particularly in response to their handling of Trump's claims to have won the Nov. 3 election.Neither CEO was backing down Tuesday, even as some Republicans make a noisy show of flocking to smaller, more permissive social media platforms like Parler.“Our policy is to have a similar approach in the upcoming Georgia special elections that we took during the general election,” Zuckerberg said.Dorsey said Twitter may even be more proactive in policing activity related to the runoffs.“We intend to learn from all of our experience with this election and bring all that learning going forward to making it more robust,” he testified. Connecticut Democratic Sen. Richard Blumenthal demanded that the pair submit an account of the additional actions the companies are taking to safeguard the integrity of the Georgia runoffs and gave them a week to do so. “I've seen a backsliding and retrenchment that is very deeply troubling that has enabled the spread of this disinformation,” he said.Dorsey told the senators that social media companies need to be more transparent about the reason they label or remove posts, particularly as an increasing number of those decisions are made without human input. "It is more or less opaque to the public and that's where I think we have a gap," Dorsey said. "We have transparency around our policies. We do not have transparency around how we operate content moderation. The rationale behind it. The reasoning."Dorsey said transparency will get even more challenging as social media companies shift more of their content moderation decisions from humans to algorithms. Companies need to be able to explain why those decisions are made and have the capacity to overrule them, he added.Lawmakers have been in sharp disagreement over whether Facebook, Twitter and Google take tough enough action against misinformation and hate speech. Republicans say the companies censor conservative points of view, while Democrats say they let political misinformation run rampant. That's put Twitter, Facebook and Google in a predicament as they are forced to distinguish acceptable political spin from disinformation. "You pointed out that we are facing something that feels impossible," Dorsey told Graham, the committee's chair. "We are required to help increase the health of the public conversation, while, at the same time, ensuring that as many people as possible can participate."Leaders of both parties agreed on one thing: The next Congress should hold more hearings about concerns that tech companies have mishandled consumer data, stifled competitors and abused their legal protections.Blumenthal, the Connecticut Democrat, said that “a series of hearings on big tech is long overdue on antitrust issues, on privacy concerns and Section 230,” the law that shields them from lawsuits for hosting user content. Graham said the same should be true if Republicans maintain the Senate majority and Iowa Sen. Chuck Grassley becomes the next Judiciary chair. “I would encourage him to have the hearings that Senator Blumenthal referenced,” Graham said of Grassley. “This is an ongoing conversation to get it right, to the extent that we can get it right.”Graham and Blumenthal, who are jointly pushing to revamp the tech industry’s legal protections, also pledged to press ahead with their bipartisan efforts to revamp Section 230. “Change is on the way, and I intend to bring aggressive and targeted reform to Section 230, but I am not nor should we be on this committee interested in being a member of the speech police,” Blumenthal said.On the other hand, Blumenthal ripped Republicans for dedicating the hearing to allegations of political bias. While acknowledging that the companies have taken “baby steps” to confront a tide of misinformation and hate speech on their sites, the Connecticut Democrat added that “destructive, violence-inciting misinformation is still a scourge on both your platforms. You must do much more.”Blumenthal also turned his fire on Senate Republicans, who convened the hearing to drill into allegations that Silicon Valley is censoring conservative viewpoints online. “This hearing is not a serious one. It is a political sideshow — a public tar and feathering,” Blumenthal said in his prepared statement.Republicans panel leaders scheduled the hearing amid conservative outcry about steps Facebook and Twitter took to limit the reach of a disputed and unverified New York Post report alleging direct ties between Joe Biden and his son Hunter's overseas business interests ahead of the election. Republican lawmakers have indicated they also plan to seize the session to accuse the companies of doing the Democratic Party’s bidding by labeling false and misleading posts by President Donald Trump and his allies. The CEOs of Twitter and Facebook again told Senate lawmakers they are open to changing a key set of legal protections that shield online companies from lawsuits over the content they host. Zuckerberg told the Senate Commerce Committee at a separate hearing last month he supports updating the quarter-century-old legal shield, provided by Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act. He said in his new written testimony that Facebook stands “ready to work with Congress on what regulation could look like,” including “Section 230 reform.”Dorsey, likewise, in his written remarks urged Congress “to work with industry and civil society to build upon Section 230’s foundation, whether it be through additions to Section 230, industry-wide self-regulation best practices, or a new legislative framework."But both also warn of the potential pitfalls of haphazardly paring back or even revoking the legal shield altogether, as Trump and Biden have both called for. Dorsey wrote that “completely eliminating Section 230 or prescribing reactionary government speech mandates will neither address concerns nor align with the First Amendment.” And he cautions against targeted carve-outs to the law that could open social media companies up to lawsuits for hosting certain types of harmful content, as lawmakers have pushed for.Dorsey wrote that “amending the law solely through carve-outs will inevitably favor large incumbents with vast resources who may willingly embrace such changes as it would leave only a small number of giant and well-funded technology companies.He continued, “For innovation to thrive, we must not entrench the largest companies further.”The Senate on Tuesday voted to reject a move to advance President Donald Trump’s nomination of Judy Shelton to the Federal Reserve Board, thanks to the absence of key GOP lawmakers and opposition from others.Shelton’s year-and-a-half-long candidacy faced skepticism from both sides of the aisle over her support for tying the value of the dollar to gold and remarks downplaying the importance of the Fed’s political independence, a cornerstone principle of the central bank since its founding.Today's move was a stunning setback for Trump, who nominated Shelton and has seen several of his other picks for the central bank — including economics commentator Stephen Moore and the late Herman Cain — rebuffed by lawmakers, including those in his own party. Trump spent much of his term blasting the Fed and the chair he appointed, Jerome Powell, for not doing enough to boost the economy. Republican Sens. Mitt Romney of Utah and Susan Collins of Maine voted against Shelton's nomination, in addition to all Democrats, while Sen. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee opposed her but was absent. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell also voted no to preserve his ability to try again to advance her. Republican senators said afterward that they hoped she would come up for another vote.There were 47 votes in favor of advancing the nomination and 50 opposed.Vice President-elect Kamala Harris was able to arrive at the Capitol in time to imperil Shelton’s confirmation. With Democrat Mark Kelly set to replace Arizona Republican Martha McSally after Thanksgiving, Shelton would be unlikely to get approval after this week.The balance of votes tilted toward Democrats after Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) announced Tuesday morning that he would quarantine after coming in contact with someone who had tested positive for Covid-19. Sen. Rick Scott (R-Fla.) is also in quarantine.Although Shelton seemed poised for confirmation before Grassley’s absence, she almost didn’t make it out of committee. Sens. Pat Toomey (Pa.), Richard Shelby (Ala.) and John Kennedy (La.) all expressed skepticism about her after the confirmation hearing in February, though they ultimately decided to vote for her. For their part, Democrats blasted Shelton for what they said was a politically convenient shift in her policy views that more closely aligned her with Trump. An advocate of a strong and stable dollar, she had slammed low interest rates for years. But after Trump started considering her for a post at the central bank, she supported his call for slashing interest rates to zero, even before the pandemic.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell pledged on Tuesday that the presidential transition would be orderly, despite concerns that the General Services Administration is delaying the process.During a news conference, a reporter asked McConnell (R-Ky.) why the GSA had yet to launch the official transition process. The majority leader responded that legal disputes over the election would be settled in court first, but he promised that “all of this will happen right on time and we’ll swear in the next administration on Jan. 20.”“We’re going to have an orderly transfer from this administration to the next one,” McConnell said. “What we all say about it is, frankly, irrelevant.”The comment follows reports that Emily Murphy, the head of the GSA and an appointee of President Donald Trump, has yet to certify Joe Biden as the official winner of the election, despite multiple news outlets calling the race for him. The delay is blocking the president-elect’s team from coordinating with federal agencies in preparation for his transfer of power.As of now, Biden and his team are beginning the transition process without the help of the GSA by setting up their own “agency review teams.” Meanwhile, Democratic Reps. Bill Pascrell of New Jersey, Gerry Connolly of Virginia and Dina Titus of Nevada sent a letter to Murphy on Monday, demanding she explain the reasoning behind her delay by Wednesday night.Wreaths Across America will not be canceled this year in spite of the coronavirus pandemic, President Donald Trump announced Tuesday.The announcement comes after Arlington National Cemetery said it would be closed to volunteers hoping to lay wreaths to honor fallen soldiers as a precaution against the spiking pandemic. That move was quickly criticized by Republicans, and Secretary of the Army Ryan McCarthy said Tuesday he directed the cemetery to reverse the decision. Shortly after, Trump said he had insisted the tradition carry on this year."I have directed Arlington National Cemetery to safely host Wreaths Across America. We appreciate the families and visitors who take time to honor and remember those who are laid to rest at our nation’s most hallowed ground," McCarthy tweeted Tuesday afternoon.Trump later tweeted: "I have reversed the ridiculous decision to cancel Wreaths Across America at Arlington National Cemetery. It will now go on!"Arlington National Cemetery has reduced the number of visitors it allows due to the pandemic. Several of its most well-known sites — including the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier — remain closed, and the public is only currently allowed grave site visitation. Masks are required in the cemetery.Organizers of Wreaths Across America — which lays wreaths to honor fallen soldiers at cemeteries around the country — expressed its disappointment at Arlington National Cemetery's cancellation, saying it had been in touch with local, state and national authorities to ensure participants stayed safe."To say we are devastated, would be an understatement," the organization said on Twitter. Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) also criticized the cancellation, tweeting: "Thousands of people have marched in DC streets the past couple weekends for Joe Biden and Donald Trump. Surely volunteers can responsibly place wreaths on the graves of our fallen heroes at Arlington."Wreaths Across America is slated to take place on Dec. 19.President-elect Joe Biden’s teams to review federal agencies include a host of veterans from the Obama administration and others with significant prior experience in domestic and international climate policy battles, according to a list of team members unveiled Tuesday.One of the leading advisers on Biden’s climate plan, Cecilia Martinez, will lead the review of the Council on Environmental Quality. Martinez is a veteran environmental justice advocate who taught at the University of Delaware in Biden’s home state. She served on Biden’s "Climate Engagement Advisory Council" over the summer and is the co-founder of the Center for Earth, Energy and Democracy.The CEQ team will likely home in on revisions to the National Environmental Policy Act, unveiled by the Trump administration over the summer that has drawn lawsuits from green groups for shortening environmental review periods and lessening considerations of climate change in the process.The transition staff also sprinkles climate change policy, diplomacy and regulatory experts across several agencies.Richard Lazarus, an environmental law professor at Harvard Law School, is staffing the Justice Department transition efforts. Lazarus is an expert on the regulatory process, including pipeline permitting, and will have a say in filling out positions to accomplish Biden’s campaign goals of aggressively prosecuting energy companies for pollution violations.Longtime State Department climate negotiator Susan Biniaz is joining Biden’s team to staff up Foggy Bottom. Biniaz, who worked for three different administrations as a career official, will weigh in on diplomats charged with negotiating international climate treaties, delivering finance for countries to adapt to climate change and participating in U.N. climate talks designed to further global emissions reduction efforts.Sharon Burke, a former Defense Department official now at New America Foundation, is volunteering on the team filling out the Pentagon. Burke served as the first assistant Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy, where she emphasized expanding renewable energy across the Armed Services, including building microgrids at military bases and reducing vulnerability of energy supply chains that depended on fossil fuels.Leonardo Martinez, a climate finance expert at the World Resources Institute, was tapped to help fill positions for the U.S. mission to the U.N. Martinez has focused on financial system stability threats posed by climate change, a point of active discussion as the world moves from figuring out the rules of the U.N. Paris climate accord to achieving national goals for curbing emissions.Former head of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Kathryn Sullivan and Karen Hyun, who leads water and coastal policy at the National Audubon Society and an Obama administration veteran, will join the team at the Commerce Department. Kris Sarri, who worked in the Obama Interior Department and now leads the National Marine Sanctuary Foundation, is also on that team.Also joining the team at CEQ is Nikki Buffa, an eight-year veteran of the Obama administration now with Latham & Watkins. Buffa served as deputy chief of staff at Interior, deputy director of cabinet affairs at the White House and associate director of CEQ at various points during the Obama years.Horst Greczmiel, who served for 16 years as associate director for National Environmental Policy Act oversight at CEQ will also join the team, as will Shara Mohtadi, now with Bloomberg Philanthropies and previously an adviser to the Office of Management and Budget during the Obama administration.OAKLAND — California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Monday ordered widespread closures of indoor operations as the state faces its fastest surge in cases since the Covid-19 pandemic began, pulling what he called the "emergency brake" on 94 percent of residents.Newsom said he was compelled to act by a case surge that is “simply without precedent in California’s pandemic history.”California’s daily cases have doubled in the past 10 days, with topping 9,890 on Sunday, the state reported Monday. “This is simply the fastest increase California has seen since the beginning of this pandemic,” Newsom said during a press briefing.That has led Newsom to accelerate the stay-at-home process, ensuring 41 of California's 58 counties will have to shut churches, indoor dining and gyms until the state deems them safe for operation. That includes most of the state's heavily populated counties, including most of the San Francisco Bay Area that previously had forestalled the same coronavirus spread seen elsewhere.Instead of waiting for the state's normal Tuesday announcement to restrict new counties, Newsom made the change Monday and said the emergency measure allows for them to move into shutdowns after only one week of rising infection spread. He said the state will no longer wait until each Tuesday and could respond sooner when infections rise. The timeline for businesses to comply will be compressed from 72 hours to 24 hours.Until this month, California was still an anomaly compared to much of the nation that had seen an explosion in cases and positivity rates. On a per capita rate, the state is still not suffering nearly as badly as the Midwest. But the spread in less than two weeks has been dramatic.University of California, San Francisco epidemiologist and infectious disease expert George Rutherford said he was surprised by just how quickly the virus was spreading in California. He supported the governor’s crackdown as necessary.“Short of stopping planes from flying into California and walling the state off like Hawaii does and testing people at the border, we don’t have a lot more levels to pull,” he said.Monday’s actions mark the most significant change to the color-coded, four-tiered reopening framework that the Newsom administration rolled out in late August after the state experienced a summer surge in Covid-19 cases.Hospitalizations statewide over the past two weeks have increased by 48 percent, while intensive care units have seen nearly 39 percent more admissions in that same time period.Santa Clara County officials had expected the county to move to the less-restrictive red tier on Tuesday, but called on residents to adhere to the new purple-tier requirements. It was a whirlwind shift for a county that just four weeks ago had reduced infections enough that the state would have allowed it to bring back NFL fans for the first time this season.“These are really significant changes. We know that it has a huge effect on business in the community, but we all know this has a significant effect,” Santa Clara County Counsel James Williams said at a press conference Monday.Not all government officials supported the rollbacks. In more conservative Placer County, “we’ve gone from the second-least restrictive tier to the most-restrictive tier in less than six days,” said Kirk Uhler, a county supervisor who has been critical of the governor’s approach. He said shutting down businesses hurts businesses, but doesn’t curb the spread.“Los Angeles County, which never got out of purple — they've been in the most restrictive lockdown this entire time — and they’ve still had a spike,” Uhler said. “So show me the evidence that restricting these businesses stops the spread. It doesn’t exist.”State Assemblymember Devon Mathis (R-Visalia), whose district includes Tulare County, which also never has gotten out of purple, doesn’t think the tier system is working. “We need to treat the people we govern as adults and allow them to make those decisions for themselves,” he said.But Newsom on Monday defended his reopening process, saying the “blueprint” is working as the administration intended. The system was designed to offer a slower transition to businesses and residents, both in reopening and in closing back down. That was the case until infection numbers alarmed state officials over the past several days.While the state's approach so far has allowed for variation among counties, Newsom said a spike in cases has prevailed across the state rather than in isolated areas and has hit every age group. "We are seeing community spread broadly," he said.Newsom also floated the idea that he was "assessing" the idea of a curfew to help curb the spread. He said he is not yet committed to the idea and is reviewing what it would mean to impose a curfew on business activities.Lee Riley, an infectious disease expert at the UC Berkeley, questioned how well a curfew would work if much of the transmission appears to be occurring within households.Riley suggested that providing clearer guidance on how people can gather safely, such as maintaining a two-week buffer between visits, could be more effective than curfews. “The formal relaxation of businesses may have contributed to the relaxation of informal gatherings,” he said.Monica Gandhi, also an infectious disease expert at UCSF, said the color-coded system sets clear standards, and she believed it’s appropriate to tighten restrictions on counties that exceed the thresholds for positivity rates and new cases.“There’s going to be a dance — literally, it’s a dance — between the virus and the human populations," Gandhi said. “We’re going to go back and forth between restrictions until we get a vaccine, which we’re getting really close to.”Under the new adjustments, some counties dropped multiple tiers to land in the most restrictive tier. Eight counties — Alameda, Butte, El Dorado, Napa, Nevada, Santa Clara, Siskiyou and Tuolumne — shifted two tiers, from orange to purple. Humboldt County and San Francisco, the only urban county to reach the least restrictive tier, were moved from yellow to red, skipping orange. Only two rural Sierra Nevada counties — Mariposa and Alpine — remain in yellow.Top appropriators hope to secure bipartisan, bicameral agreement by the end of the week on overall funding totals for a massive 12-bill spending package, which would prevent a government shutdown on Dec. 11 and boost agency budgets for the remainder of the fiscal year. “The next few days will tell us a lot about whether Congress can pull off the bipartisan, bicameral appropriations process that I believe both sides would like to deliver,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said on the floor on Tuesday. “Our colleagues on the committee and their counterparts in the House need to continue their bicameral discussions and settle on top-line dollar amounts for each separate bill,” he said. “I hope they will be able to reach this broad agreement by the end of this very week.”Senate Appropriations Chair Richard Shelby told reporters that “extensive talks“ are happening “on the staff level and so forth.“ “We're trying to get there,” the Alabama Republican said of an agreement on overall totals for the 12 appropriations bills that would comprise an omnibus spending deal, otherwise known as 302(b)s. “We believe there's a little bit of momentum here now, so let's see what we can do.“ Partisan pitfalls to an agreement: Both House and Senate appropriators have to work out the differences between their versions of fiscal 2021 spending bills. Senate Republicans released their appropriations bills last week, while House Democrats unveiled their measures and passed most of them in two bundles earlier this year.Some spending bills, like the measure that funds the Agriculture Department and the FDA, should be a relatively easy lift. But Democrats are already pushing for more money for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services and Education, more funding for environmental conversation, language that ties police funding to reform measures, additional coronavirus aid and more.“We have some basic agreements in principle,” but nothing has been agreed upon, Shelby said on Tuesday. No guarantees from Trump: Shelby also said that he hasn’t received assurances from the White House that President Donald Trump will support a sweeping omnibus package, let alone a continuing resolution to extend current funding levels and keep the government open if congressional leaders can’t agree on a broader spending deal.“We understand that the president has a powerful voice,” Shelby said. “Let’s see what we can accomplish first.”The White House and the Office of Management and Budget didn’t respond to two requests for comment about whether the president would sign an omnibus package.Pessimistic about pandemic aid: Democrats and Republicans are also glum about the prospects of attaching more coronavirus relief to a broader funding deal. Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), a senior appropriator, said the best chances for passing pandemic aid during a lame duck session of Congress might be rolling the stimulus into an omnibus package. “But we’ll see,” he told reporters on Monday night. “There seems to be more interest in trying to move an omnibus and more serious discussion about that than I've heard about a Covid package.”Joe Biden is filling his White House with longtime aides who served in key roles in his campaign and, in some cases, worked alongside the president-elect during the Obama administration.The Biden transition team announced a series of staff moves Tuesday, including that adviser and confidant Mike Donilon will move to the White House as senior adviser to the president. Donilon drove much of the messaging on the campaign and had served as counselor to Biden when he was vice president.The other appointments are:Ricchetti, another Biden confidant, was under consideration for chief of staff, a position that ultimately went to Ron Klain. His past lobbying career during the 1990s and early 2000's is already drawing blowback from progressive groups. Advocates pushing Biden to implement a public health care option and direct government negotiation of drug prices have raised particular concerns about his background working and lobbying for health insurance, hospital and pharmaceutical companies.Former campaign manager O'Malley Dillon joins the White House after long expressing to others that she had no plans to work in the administration, should Biden win the election. She took the reins as Biden’s campaign manager as the race headed into the general election, after serving as former Rep. Beto O'Rourke's campaign manager in the 2020 presidential primary and deputy campaign manager for President Barack Obama's 2012 reelection campaign.Remus served as general counsel to the Biden campaign. While it's unlikely to endear her to liberals, Remus’ experience clerking for conservative Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito could prove valuable to the Biden administration as it gears up for repeated clashes with the Court’s 6-3 conservative majority in the years ahead. Alito recently gave a speech to the Federalist Society airing grievances with the Court’s decisions on same-sex marriage, abortion, and public health restrictions enacted during the pandemic, signaling an appetite to revisit those precedents and roll them back now that President Trump’s three picks have been confirmed to the bench. Richmond, a national co-chair to Joe Biden’s presidential campaign, will focus on outreach with grassroots organizations, public interest groups and advocacy groups, including the NAACP. He’s also expected to serve as a liaison with the business community and climate change activists. Richmond's hiring was lauded by South Carolina Rep. Jim Clyburn, the most senior Black Democrat in the House and one of Biden's key allies during the 2020 campaign: "I think everybody knows I've been pushing him for this administration forever," Clyburn said. Rodríguez joined the Biden campaign as a senior adviser and its highest-ranking Latina in the spring, after serving in a senior capacity for Kamala Harris’s primary campaign for president. She was among Harris’s earliest hires after Harris won her Senate seat in California in 2016. The granddaughter of legendary civil rights and labor leader César Chávez, Rodríguez forged strong bonds with Obama and Biden advisers and aides earlier in her career as deputy director of political engagement in the White House. Tomasini, was the Biden campaign’s traveling chief of staff. She followed Biden to the vice president's office after working for his short-lived 2008 presidential campaign in Iowa.POLITICO on Monday reported the appointments of Richmond, O’Malley Dillon and Ricchetti.Chris Cadelago and Alice Miranda Ollstein contributed to this report.For four years, Vice President Mike Pence has faced one sweeping loyalty test after another. This time, allies are questioning whether there should be a limit to his fealty.As President Donald Trump pushes to overturn the election outcome and pressures Republicans not to recognize President-elect Joe Biden as the next commander in chief, Pence is facing pressure from allies to put country and party first — even if they collide with the inclinations of his boss. The head of the White House’s coronavirus task force since the early weeks of the pandemic, Pence could be warning the public about an explosion of coronavirus cases and steering administration officials toward a more robust response to the pandemic — something Trump does not want his government dwelling on. The vice president also could spend more time promoting a pair of GOP senators in special-election races that are likely to determine the balance of power in the Senate — but part of that message rests on acknowledging Trump won’t hold the White House. And Pence, who has long harbored presidential ambitions of his own, might at this moment have his eyes on a 2024 Republican primary — but can’t do that with Trump in the way. It’s an unusual bind for a vice president who has always been known for coming to Trump’s aid. “At some point, he will have to prioritize his own interests,” said a Republican close to Pence. What comes after January for Pence is as unknown to the vice president himself as it is to those around him. He doesn’t own a home in Washington or Indiana, where he served as governor before joining the GOP presidential ticket in 2016, and his closest friends aren’t yet sure whether and to where he might relocate. One person familiar with his thinking said Pence is likely to spend the next two years raising money for his own political apparatus if he does launch a White House bid in 2024, delivering paid speeches and assisting GOP House and Senate candidates in the 2022 midterm cycle, all from a home base located back in the Midwest. Pence created his own PAC called the Great America Committee early on in his tenure as vice president and is expected to use it as a vehicle for fundraising between now and 2022. “He’ll spend a lot of time being out there with members when they need to raise money and helping conservative pro-Trump candidates be successful in their races,” said David McIntosh, a longtime friend of the vice president and head of the right-leaning Club for Growth, who noted that Republicans may have a chance at regaining control of the House in two years given their unexpected gains in the 2020 cycle.But the more Trump weighs a 2024 bid of his own, the more Pence will find himself in a state of limbo after the 2022 midterm cycle: not wanting to cross his former boss but facing narrowing prospects for his own career if he eschews a presidential bid because of Trump. Should Trump launch a campaign for a non-consecutive second term — something he’s privately mused about, according to a person familiar with the discussions — allies of the vice president believe he will sit out the next presidential cycle unless he’s on the ticket again himself. While people close to him acknowledged how frustrating such a scenario would be, they also took pains to underscore Pence’s roll-with-the-punches demeanor and the role faith will play as he determines what’s next for himself and his family. “If President Trump is not reelected and decides to mount that campaign … he would put any personal ambitions aside to help the president,” McIntosh said. “He holds these things lightly because he knows it’s either a calling for him or it’s not.” “Do I want him to sit it out if Trump or one of his kids runs?” asked a second Republican close to Pence. “Not one bit. But at the end of the day, that’s who Mike Pence is.”Since Election Day, Pence has put noticeable distance between himself and the Trump campaign’s legal campaign to reverse the election results. While the vice president’s name has been attached to fundraising emails for the president’s legal fund, Pence and his top aides have avoided echoing the president’s claim to victory outright. His spokespeople have also been quiet on Twitter, declining to put their personal accounts to use to elevate baseless allegations of ballot fraud that senior Trump aides with larger Twitter followings have circulated on their own accounts.But he’s tried to stay somewhat close to the line in speeches to GOP groups.“We are going to keep fighting until every legal vote is counted and until every illegal vote is thrown out,” Pence said Friday in a speech to conservative student activists involved with the Young Americas Foundation. “And whatever the outcome at the end of the process, I promise you: We will never stop fighting to make America great again.”During another appearance on Friday hosted by the Council for National Policy, Pence kept his reply brief when audience members began chanting “four more years” during his remarks. “That’s the plan,” he responded. In a statement from the Trump campaign, spokesperson Sarah Hasse praised Pence for his loyalty to the president: “Vice President Mike pence has done everything the campaign has asked of him, not just in the days following Nov. 3, but for the months and years preceding it. [He] has been a loyal and reliable advocate for the president from the beginning and will continue to fight for him and the American people every step of the way.” For the two months between now and Inauguration Day, Pence allies expect the vice president to pour his time and energy into the government’s coronavirus response, particularly amid a spike in hospitalization rates across the U.S. The vice president will also visit Georgia this week to boost Republican Sens. David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, both of whom are facing run-off contests in January that will determine whether Biden will face a divided Congress as president. Even with 2024 hanging in the balance, Pence allies say he has continued to demonstrate a commitment to Trump by working to ensure the president receives credit for key accomplishments even as the spotlight shifts to Biden. Most recently, the vice president penned an op-ed on Sunday commending Trump for cementing America’s “renewed leadership” in space exploration for the SpaceX-NASA launch of four astronauts to the International Space Station. “The president’s ambitious vision has led our nation into space farther and faster than ever before,” Pence wrote on the day he and his wife Karen represented the Trump administration at the Kennedy Space Center for Sunday’s launch.Along with routine ceremonial duties, Pence will have a more significant one ahead: On Jan. 6, the vice president will be required to oversee a joint session of Congress as it officially counts the 2020 Electoral College votes — a potentially awkward moment for the vice president if his boss still has not conceded the election by then.How/where are you celebrating your birthday and with whom? “Well, 40 calls for the kind of celebration that isn’t achievable this year, but that’s OK. I’ve constructed an ideal weekend day that includes going for a run on the towpath, taking the kids for bagels, putting up our Christmas decorations, picking up beer from Denizens in Silver Spring and making a sauce. If two or three of those things actually happen, it’ll be a great day.”How did you get your start in politics? “I started out as a speechwriter in 2005 at the NRCC in a cubicle next to the refrigerator. All I did all day was write -- releases, op-eds, ‘interested parties’ memos to reporters, started a ‘blog.’ That was back when we had to print out a draft release with the supporting material and get a series of signatures before it could go out, so there was always paper flying around. Invariably, there would be a crisis now and then that required us to crank something out in 15 minutes or so -- that’s how I ended up writing [Rep.] Mark Foley’s resignation letter. The committee was quite a proving ground.”What’s an interesting book/article you’re reading during coronavirus social distancing? And why? “I am about to finish ‘Stuck: How Vaccine Rumors Start -- and Why They Don't Go Away’ by Dr. Heidi Larson. In the book, Dr. Larson traces how vaccines went from being as normal as brushing teeth to getting caught up in our current ‘ecosystem of doubt.’ We tend to try and disregard the misinformation out there, but here, we need to tackle it directly. Otherwise, we could very well end up with an effective Covid vaccine, but a hesitant public. This is going to require an enormous communications effort. It needs to be national in scope, but hyperlocal in focus: targeted outreach to at-risk communities, data dashboards to monitor distribution, engaging trusted partners in civil society.”What’s a trend going on in the U.S. or abroad that doesn’t get enough attention? “More than 1 in 3 adults in our country have prediabetes. That is just a staggering figure. It’s about 88 million people! And the vast majority of those folks don’t even know it. In many cases, you won’t find out until it has caused you to have a stroke or a heart attack. This is a massive burden on our health care system, but one that can be fixed by making some simple tweaks in our lives. In other words, let’s do a better job taking care of ourselves.”What are you watching for in the Biden presidency? “Getting the long-term economic recovery stuff right, like an honest-to-God infrastructure program. Roads and bridges, ports and airports, urban and rural broadband, bikeways, railways and waterways. Go big. It mobilizes jobs, it brings capital off the sidelines, and it will make people’s lives better.”What’s a fun fact that people in Washington might not know about you? “I was a decent singer in high school -- I was a tenor -- and one of my goals for my 40s is to get back to that and sing in some kind of organized group, maybe through church. We’ll see.”For the first time in more than half a century, an outgoing administration is stonewalling an incoming one at every level — with no intention of relenting. President Donald Trump hasn’t called President-elect Joe Biden. The Trump campaign hasn’t reached out to the Biden campaign. The White House and federal agencies haven't briefed the Biden transition team. First lady Melania Trump hasn’t invited Jill Biden to the White House for tea.There are no briefings being given about coronavirus, troop drawdowns in Afghanistan and Iraq, or aggression by China and Iran. No background checks being done for job applicants. No security clearances being conducted for potential Biden staffers.The silence could continue into December, when states must certify their results to Congress, according to several Republicans familiar with the expected plans. Until then, they said, Trump and his team will continue to assert the election was fraudulently stolen from them, using unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud to file lawsuits and recounts challenging the results.It’s a situation without parallel since at least 1963, when a federal law implemented modern presidential transition procedures, mandating the sharing of office space and the spending of money for the process.The posture threatens to leave Biden’s team unprepared in January when it takes over a millions-strong federal workforce, according to officials who worked for Republican and Democratic presidents and lawmakers of both parties. And, they added, it sends a message to the world that the United States, generally a model across the globe, is vulnerable and unable to administer a seamless transition of power.“The transfer of power, even reluctantly, is important for the world to witness,” said Andy Card, former chief of staff to President George W. Bush, who was involved in three presidential transitions.Even in 2000, when a recount fight in Florida kept the nation in suspense for weeks over who would become president, Card said President Bill Clinton’s staff allowed Bush to have national security briefings. Bush’s challenger, then-Vice President Al Gore, was already receiving them.This year, Biden was declared the winner of the presidential election on Nov. 7, four days after voting ended, and has since received 306 Electoral College votes, 36 more than needed. Yet a Trump appointee, Emily Murphy, the head of the General Services Administration, has failed to affirm that Biden won the election, refusing to trigger a process that would give Biden’s team access to federal resources.Biden’s team has tried to work around the impasse, hiring staff, naming agency review teams and contacting former federal employees who worked for President Barack Obama. They’ve also reached out to state and local officials, even as many Republicans, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, have failed to acknowledge that Biden won the election.Trump, who received 232 Electoral College votes, has not conceded and is fighting the results. “I won the Election!” Trump tweeted on Monday to his nearly 90 million followers, a proclamation he has made regularly. Presidential historian Michael Beschloss said some outgoing presidents have been “angry” with the outcome of elections but that “never remotely in the founders' wildest dreams” did they envision a president refusing to concede or leave.The Trump and Biden campaigns and the Biden transition staff did not respond to requests for comment.The White House said it’s abiding by the law. “The Trump administration is following all statutory requirements,” White House spokesperson Judd Deere said. Trump's national security adviser, Robert O’Brien, promised an orderly transfer of power if Biden is certified the winner, but some Republican allies of the president, including former Trump staffers, say it's not clear Trump would attend Biden’s inauguration. If he doesn't, Trump would become only the fourth president after John Adams, John Quincy Adams and Andrew Johnson to snub his successor by skipping the inauguration, said Thomas Balcerski, a professor at Eastern Connecticut State University who has studied transitions and inaugurations. Two other presidents did not attend for other reasons.“This is unprecedented in modern times,” Balcerski said. “President Trump has once again managed to politicize an aspect of our democratic governance that is supposed to be depoliticized.”The Trump administration began planning for a potential transition in May as required by law, establishing groups of career officials to advise departments and agencies on how to prepare. Biden’s team, too, started preparing for a possible administration months ago, focusing on personnel and policy, according to several members of his team.But until Murphy’s GSA designates a winner, Biden's team is not expected to be given access to information. It’s an unprecedented scenario, but one Biden officials had contemplated could happen.“With every day that passes it becomes more concerning that our national security team and the president-elect and vice president-elect don't have access to those threat assessments, intelligence briefings and real-time information about our engagements around the world because you don’t know what you don’t know,” Jen Psaki, an adviser to the Biden transition, told reporters. “In order to prepare to govern it's important they have access to that information.”In the past, the incoming president would send groups of staffers into federal agencies. There, the next administration’s staffers are typically given office space to work while reviewing documents, receiving briefings and meeting existing staff. In recent days, even some Republican senators have begun to argue Biden should at least be receiving the high-level intelligence briefings called the Presidential Daily Brief.“The bottom line is our adversaries look at a transition period as a moment of potential weakness which they will exploit if possible,” said Michael Chertoff, former secretary of homeland security under Bush, during an online briefing for the media Monday organized by three groups urging the Trump administration to allow a transition to move forward. The 9/11 Commission cited a lack of information during a transition as one of the factors contributing to the 2001 terrorist attack the year Bush became president.In a Monday speech in Wilmington, Del., about restoring the economy, Biden urged the Trump administration to work on a transition so the U.S. can succeed, particularly in the fight against the coronavirus. “More people may die, if we don’t coordinate,” he said.Chris Lu, who ran the transition for Obama after the 2008 election, recalled that GSA made its designation just hours after the election and that he began to speak twice a day with the Bush official charged with assisting with the transition, deputy chief of staff Blake Gottesman. The two discussed everything from security clearances for incoming aides to staffers accessing computers.The transition went so well that when Obama signed a bill two years later designed to improve the transition process, Lu — a former deputy Labor secretary who is heading up that agency's transition team for Biden — made sure to get two extra signing pens from the president to give to Bush’s chief of staff, Josh Bolten, and Gottesman. “We’ve been doing transitions for 200 years in this country,” Lu said. “We’ve done it in war and depression and we’ve done it when there were bitter adversaries on both sides. This is the tradition of our country.”Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, one of President Donald Trump’s closest international allies, acknowledged Joe Biden as the American president-elect in a “warm conversation” on Tuesday.According to a statement from the prime minister’s media adviser, Biden “reiterated his deep commitment to the State of Israel and its security,” while Netanyahu described the “special bond” between Israel and the United States as a “fundamental component of Israel’s security and its policy.”“The two agreed to meet soon in order to discuss the many issues on the agenda and reiterated the need to continue bolstering the steadfast alliance” between their countries, the statement said. The Biden transition team confirmed later Tuesday that the two leaders had discussed the United States’ commitment to Israeli security and that Biden expects to work closely with Netanyahu throughout his presidency.Israeli President Reuven Rivlin also tweeted on Tuesday that he had spoken with Biden, calling him an “old friend” of Israel who “knows our friendship is based on values beyond partisan politics.” Netanyahu is among the latest world leaders to speak to Biden in the two weeks since Election Day, following French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Irish Taoiseach Micheál Martin and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. The Chinese government and Pope Francis have congratulated the president-elect, as well. Biden's transition team revealed that the president-elect had held discussions with leaders from Chile, South Africa and India on Tuesday, as well.But the news of Netanyahu’s conversation with Biden is likely to be especially bruising for Trump, as the incumbent president and the prime minister have cultivated a geopolitical alliance and political partnership in recent years. Trump’s administration has pursued a Middle East policy largely favoring Israel and focused on safeguarding it from regional threats such as Iran. Meanwhile, Netanyahu has used video of his diplomacy with Trump to promote his Likud Party in Israel’s legislative elections.The Trump administration has also used its role in the recent Abraham Accords as examples of its foreign policy accomplishments. The agreement paved the way for Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates to normalize relations with Israel — the first Arab countries to do so since Jordan established relations in 1994. Saudi Arabia also allowed an El Al flight to use its airspace for a commercial flight for the first time. Sudan followed suit and normalized relations with Israel in October."President Trump's foreign policy and national security record is comparable only to Ronald Reagan in the past two generations," national security adviser Robert O'Brien said, evoking the diplomatic developments with Israel.Netanyahu also had a famously frosty relationship with former President Barack Obama, going so far as to accuse the Obama administration of carrying "out a shameful anti-Israel ploy at the UN" in 2016 after the U.S. abstained on a Security Council resolution urging Israel to stop constructing settlements in Palestinian territory.But election-related tensions in their relationship became apparent last month, when Netanyahu notably declined an opportunity to publicly criticize Biden during a phone call with Trump in the Oval Office, despite the president’s encouragement to do so.A "uniform approach” to the coronavirus pandemic is needed to replace the uneven response that has fueled a dangerous surge in hospitalizations and deaths across the nation, the top U.S. infectious disease expert said Tuesday.“We need some fundamental public health measures that everyone should be adhering to, not a disjointed, ‘one state says one thing, the other state says another thing,’” Dr. Anthony Fauci said at a conference sponsored by The New York Times.The Trump administration, however, has left the issue to states while encouraging them to keep businesses and schools open. Facing spiraling coronavirus numbers and with a contentious Election Day now in the rearview mirror, Republican governors have begun grudgingly lining up behind their Democratic colleagues in tightening restrictions aimed at taming the pandemic.Iowa Gov. Kim Reynolds' plan, effective Tuesday, requires everyone 2 and older to wear a face covering when in an indoor space open to the public. Reynolds also limited bars and restaurants to 6 a.m.-10 p.m., except for carryout and drive-through service.Reynolds, who in the past has dismissed masks as a "feel good" effort, said Tuesday masks are effective but not a "silver bullet.""There is science on both sides," Reynolds said. "If you look you can find whatever you want to support wherever you're at. Hopefully when we get to Christmas we will be able to gather again with our families."This file will be updated throughout the day. For updates in your inbox, subscribe to The Daily Briefing newsletter.U.S. Sen. Chuck Grassley, the oldest Republican currently serving in the Senate, has tested positive for coronavirus, he announced Tuesday afternoon.The 87-year-old senator chairs the Senate Finance Committee and is the president pro tempore of the Senate, making him third in line for the presidency after the vice president and speaker of the House. He was first elected to the Senate in 1980."I’ve tested positive for coronavirus. I’ll b following my doctors’ orders/CDC guidelines & continue to quarantine. I’m feeling good + will keep up on my work for the ppl of Iowa from home. I appreciate everyone’s well wishes + prayers &look fwd to resuming my normal schedule soon," Grassley wrote on Twitter.Grassley said on Tuesday morning that he was in quarantine while awaiting a test result after learning he’d been exposed to the virus. That test came back positive.— Stephen Gruber-Miller, Des Moines RegisterIndiana Gov. Eric Holcomb is quarantining after several members of his security detail tested positive for COVID-19, the governor's office said Tuesday.Both the governor and First Lady Janet Holcomb began their quarantine Tuesday at the direction of Indiana State Department of Health Commissioner Dr. Kris Box. They are considered close contacts to the security detail and will be tested later in the week for coronavirus. The Indiana State Department of Health will perform the contact tracing for the governor, First Lady and members of the security detail, according to the governor's office.— Lawrence Andrea, Indianapolis StarThe City of New Orleans announced that Mardi Gras parades will not be allowed in 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.“The guidelines are very clear that you can't have a gathering that large," said Beau Tidwell, communications director for the City of New Orleans, at a press conference on Tuesday.Under current guidelines, outdoor gatherings in the city are limited to 150 people.At the start of the pandemic in March, New Orleans COVID-19 numbers spiked and the city became one of the early hot spots in the United States.Many experts blamed the outbreak on the city’s Carnival celebration for drawing more than 1 million visitors to New Orleans, which contributed to the spread of the virus. The Carnival season ended last year on Feb. 25. The city’s first presumptive case of COVID-19 was March 9.— Todd A. Price, The American SouthIllinois Gov. JB Pritzker announced new statewide mitigation measures Tuesday. The restrictions, effective Nov. 20, are aimed at preventing between 17,000 and 45,000 projected additional deaths between now and March, Pritzker said.“This is not a stay-at-home order, but the best way for us to avoid a stay-at-home order is to stay at home. We are asking you to choose Zoom instead of packing people in a room on Thanksgiving,” Pritzker said.The new measures affect retail, gyms, hotels, bars, restaurants, manufacturing, offices and more.Pritzker said he would be celebrating Thanksgiving in Chicago with his son, while his wife and daughter stay in Florida. “The situation is simply too grave for me to be elsewhere,” he said. “My family is having to make sacrifices to stay safe.”New COVID-19 deaths are up 260% since Oct. 1, Pritzker said.— Grace HauckThe “overwhelming majority” of Americans, more than 75%, must get inoculated with an effective vaccine to bring a halt to the public health challenges presented by the coronavirus, Fauci warned. He urged for an end to the controversies surrounding masks and for people to trust that vaccines will be proven safe and effective before they are widely distributed. United, the country could return to near-normal by autumn, he suggested.“We’ve got to get public health issues out of the realm of political divisiveness — this is not a political issue,” he said. “We’ve got to do everything we possibly can to pull together as a nation.”Reynolds isn't the only Republican governor to yield to the pleas of public health experts. Ohio's Mike DeWine, West Virginia's Jim Justice, Utah's Gary Herbert and North Dakota's Doug Burgham, Republican governors all, have issued mask mandates in recent days. California, New York, Michigan, Virginia and Hawaii are among Democratic-led states that have toughened restrictions. A recurring theme: State health care system "being pushed to the brink." Current COVID-19 hospitalizations nationwide have surpassed 70,000 for the first time.“We’re going to dial up and dial back depending on where our numbers are at,” Reynolds said Tuesday. “Right now, we are really stressing our hospitals and their capacity.”For families with young children that have decided to fly for the holidays, the biggest challenge might not be packing gifts, finding COVID-19-safe airport transportation or herding the whole clan to the gate. Rather, it could making sure fidgety toddlers wear their face masks in the terminal and during the flight due to the widespread rule among airlines that even young children are required to keep masks on during flights. There is little variation between carriers when it comes to firm written policies. One exception is Delta Air Lines, with a policy that states "young children who cannot maintain a face covering are exempt from the mask requirement." Reina Nishida's Ottotto Threads business now thrives by sewing masks that cater to kids: "If you let your kids pick the print, they will be more inclined to wear them."To avoid delayed gifts or sold-out stock, experts recommend starting your holiday shopping sooner rather than later. Shipping delays have been a recurring theme for online shopping since the pandemic began, and experts say that trend will continue through the holiday season. Karl Haller, partner and retail industry expert at IBM Global Business Services, advises that if you see something you know you want "go ahead and buy it." Some shipping deadlines suggested by the Postal Service include retail ground by Dec. 15, first-class mail by Dec. 18, priority mail by Dec. 19 and priority mail express by Dec. 13."We expect to see continued pressure on shipping as more packages flow through the system," Haller said. "We have already seen some of the major carriers impose fees on package shipping in anticipation of this."– Amanda Tarlton, Reviewed.comSen. Rob Portman, R-Ohio, announced Tuesday that he will participate in a phase 3 vaccine trial being managed in Cincinnati. The more people Johnson & Johnson can line up for the trial, the sooner they complete testing and begin the FDA approval process, he said. Portman, 64, stressed that the clinical trials are critical to verifying the safety and effectiveness of these vaccines and making them available as soon as possible. "I hope that my participation in the Janssen-Johnson & Johnson phase 3 vaccine trial will encourage others to participate as well & help Americans feel confident of the safety & effectiveness of vaccines once they are authorized by the FDA," Portman tweeted.Families are hanging up holiday lights and putting out decorations before carving turkeys for Thanksgiving. Festive lights – already known to be able to elevate a person’s mood – could take on an outsized role during the coronavirus pandemic, with families more unlikely to travel to see loved ones. San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg lit up the city’s River Walk early, saying he has a hunch the outdoor display will have an even bigger draw than in years when inside activities aren't restricted.“On the surface, the first thing that you could argue, easily, is that lights, which obviously are associated with joy, and bring back a lot of good memories, are a way of alleviating depression, sadness, feeling down, anxiety, stress,” said Dr. Krystine Batcho, professor of psychology at Le Moyne College in Syracuse, New York. "All the things the pandemic has increased."In Hungary, public health officials warned that a lack of medical staff qualified to treat coronavirus patients in intensive care units could soon lead to soaring deaths. In France, intensive care wards have been operating at over 95% capacity for almost two weeks. In South Korea, social distancing rules were tightened in the greater Seoul area to try to suppress a coronavirus resurgence there. In Greece, a 62-year-old clergyman in the Orthodox Church has died of COVID-19, reviving a debate over the safety of receiving communion as the Christmas season beckons. Bishop Ioannis of Lagadas was an outspoken advocate of maintaining communion ceremonies.The nation’s tension over wearing masks reached the Senate floor Monday night when Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, asked Sen. Dan Sullivan, R-Alaska, who was presiding over the Senate at the time, if he would wear a mask. Brown started to say that he knows he can’t tell Sullivan what to do, but the Republican cut him off, telling him that “I don’t wear a mask when I’m speaking like most senators…I don’t need your instruction.”Brown later tweeted that he wanted senators to "stop endangering all the Senate workers." Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, chimed in on Facebook: "This is idiotic. Sherrod Brown is being a complete ass. He wears a mask to speak – when nobody is remotely near him – as an ostentatious sign of fake virtue."– Sarah ElbeshbishiTwo big companies leading the race for a vaccine have released promising results from their Phase 3 trials. Here’s what we know about both trials and what they might mean for the future of the pandemic:Preliminary results indicate Moderna’s vaccine appears to be 94.5% effective; Pfizer's more than 90% effective. Both candidate vaccines reported mild or moderate side effects, mostly pain at the injection site, fatigue and aching muscles and joints for a day or two. The FDA is expected to an issue an emergency for use authorization for at least one vaccine by year's end, with front-line health care workers first in line to get it. Clinical trial data showing how people of various ages, ethnicities and health statuses responded will determine recommendations on how to prioritize shots. Scientists have predicted vaccines won’t be available to all until next summer or fall.– Adrianna Rodriguez, Karen WeintraubThe lack of coordination with the Trump administration on dealing with the coronavirus pandemic is the biggest threat facing his transition, President-elect Joe Biden says. Biden’s transition to the White House has been complicated by President Donald Trump’s refusal to concede the Nov. 3 election. Biden said the U.S. must determine how to prioritize who most needs a vaccine and coordinate distribution with the rest of the world.“We’re going into a very dark winter,” Biden said. “Things are going to get tougher before they get easier.”– Bart JansenStanford University is taking issue with comments made by Dr. Scott Atlas, a member of President Donald Trump's coronavirus task force and a senior fellow at the university, about Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer's new COVID restrictions. Atlas called on Michigan residents to "rise up" against Whitmer's order to suspend in-person schooling, halt indoor dining at restaurants and close some businesses. The school said in a statement on Twitter that his views are "inconsistent with the university’s approach" to the pandemic."Stanford's position on managing the pandemic in our community is clear," the tweet said. "We support using masks, social distancing, and conducting surveillance and diagnostic testing. We also believe in the importance of strictly following the guidance of local and state health authorities."The evidence increasingly shows young people are not immune to the coronavirus. The number of U.S. infants, children and teens diagnosed with COVID-19 has surpassed 1 million, according to data released Monday by the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Children’s Hospital Association.The total hit nearly 1.04 million kids on Nov. 12, including nearly 112,000 new cases last week. That was the highest weekly total of any previous week in the pandemic, the academy said.AAP President Sally Goza called the data “staggering and tragic.” Children generally are much more likely than adults to have mild cases but hospitalizations and deaths do occur. According to data from state health departments that's missing some states, at least 6,330 pediatric hospitalizations and 133 deaths have been recorded since May.Screenings for COVID-19 at airports are labor-intensive and ineffective, a study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention concludes.A program instituted by the CDC and the Department of Homeland Security conducted more than 766,000 screenings among travelers from certain countries arriving at designated U.S. airports from Jan. 17-Sept. 13. Of those screened for symptoms, 298 were referred for a health assessment, 35 were tested for the coronavirus and only nine came out positive. That factors out to one positive result for every 85,000 screenings."The low case detection rate of this resource-intensive program highlighted the need for fundamental change in the U.S. border health strategy,'' the report said. "Because SARS-CoV-2 infection and transmission can occur in the absence of symptoms and because the symptoms of COVID-19 are nonspecific, symptom-based screening programs are ineffective for case detection.''The screening program ended Sept. 14 and was replaced by efforts to promote prevention among travelers and improving public health response at ports of entry.Large parts of California are closing shop. Nearly three-quarters of the counties — home to 94.1% of the state's population — will be required to operate under the state’s most stringent pandemic restrictions, Gov. Gavin Newsom said Monday. Indoor dining, gyms and movie theaters, among other businesses, must either remain closed or shut down in 41 of the state's 58 counties, beginning Tuesday.Newsom said he is “sounding the alarm” due to “the fastest increase California has seen" since the pandemic began, with COVID-19 cases doubling in the last 10 days. Cases rose 51.3% in the first week of November. California hit 1 million coronavirus cases last week, joining Texas as the only states to reach the undesired milestone. Under the state’s Blueprint for a Safer Economy, which is its four-tiered, color-coded system for reopening, the state can tighten restrictions based on emergency situations.– Nicole Hayden, Palm Springs Desert SunContributing: The Associated PressLIMA, Peru — Peru’s political crisis appeared on the verge of resolution Monday as Congress cleared the way for an elder statesman and consensus candidate to become the country’s third president in a week.People waved the nation's red-and-white flag and blared horns outside the gates of Congress as Francisco Sagasti of the centrist Purple Party was selected the legislature's new president.The 76-year-old engineer has not yet been sworn into office, but as head of Congress becomes the nation's chief of state by default. Peru currently has no president or vice president, making him next in line.It will now fall on Sagasti to heal a nation bruised by a week of upheaval.“What’s at stake is taking a first step toward rebuilding confidence between the people and the state,” said Samuel Rotta, president of the Peruvian chapter of Transparency International.Applause erupted in the legislative palace as Sagasti clinched the required majority vote. A respected academic, he has also spent decades consulting government institutions and held a post at the World Bank. Shortly after the vote, he took an oath to become Congress' president.“We will do everything possible to return hope to the people and show them they can trust in us,” he said in his first remarks.Many in the Latin American nation are hopeful Sagasti's appointment will mark the end of a tumultuous week in which thousands took to the streets outraged by Congress' decision to oust popular ex-President Martín Vizcarra. During the upheaval, two young men died and dozens were injured. Peru also spent more than 24 hours with no designated chief of state.Martín Vizcarra:Peru President ousted by Congress amid COVID-19 crisis, unproven corruption allegationsMore:Peru's interim president, Manuel Merino, resigns as nation plunges into crisisSagasti could steer the country back toward stability because he is in a stronger position than his predecessor to potentially win the support of both Congress and demonstrators. He and his Purple Party bloc were among just 19 of 130 lawmakers to vote against Vizcarra's removal. That will earn him credibility among protesters who condemned the ouster as a power grab. Unlike Vizcarra, he also has a party in Congress representing him.“Sagasti is someone who inspired confidence among a lot of people,” said Jo-Marie Burt, a senior fellow with the Washington Office on Latin America. “He's an accidental president — but I wouldn't say he's someone without a plan.”Peru has much on the line: The country is in the throes of one of the world’s most lethal coronavirus outbreaks and political analysts say the constitutional crisis cast the country’s democracy into jeopardy.The protests that rocked Peru were unlike any seen in recent years, fueled largely by young people typically apathetic to the country’s notoriously erratic politics. They came a year after a wave of anti-government demonstrations around Latin America demanding better conditions for the poor and working class.Human rights groups accused police of mounting an excessive response to the protests, lashing out at demonstrators with batons, rubber bullets and tear gas. The two protesters who died suffered multiple wounds — Jack Pintado, 22, was shot 10 times, including in the head, and Jordan Sotelo, 24, was hit four times in the chest near his heart, according to authorities.“People on the streets, in their homes, on their balconies and on social media are very, very upset,” Rotta said. “Peru is a country with high levels of mistrust. Politicians profoundly aggravated that.”At the crux of the unrest are long-simmering tensions over corruption in Peru. Every living former president has been accused or charged. Meanwhile, half of Congress is also under investigation for crimes ranging from money laundering to homicide.Vizcarra attracted legions of supporters for his efforts to change that. He dissolved Congress last year, reformed how judges are chosen and tried to get rid of the prosecutorial immunity granted to lawmakers. But he had no party backing him in Congress and sparred with legislators constantly.Lawmakers ousted him using a 19th-century-era clause claiming he showed “permanent moral incapacity." They accused him of taking over $630,000 in bribes in exchange for two construction contracts while governor of a small province years ago. Prosecutors are investigating the accusations, but Vizcarra has not been charged. He vehemently denies any wrongdoing.The country's highest court is currently evaluating whether Congress broke the law in removing him from office — a decision that experts said would not be retroactive, but could have implications going forward. Some analysts said the ordeal shows Peru's political system needs reform so that no one branch of government has outsized power.“There's a serious question of checks and balances,” Rotta said.After Vizcarra was removed, then-Congress president Manuel Merino became president. The little known politician and rice farmer faced daily protests. He promised to keep in place a scheduled presidential election in April. But his conservative Cabinet appointments irked many. He resigned on Sunday, just five days after being sworn into office.The unrest comes as Peru grapples with the world's highest per-capita COVID-19 mortality rate and one of Latin America’s worst economic contractions. The International Monetary Fund projects a 14% decline in GDP this year.Sagasti has been a mainstay in Peruvian politics. He has a doctorate from the University of Pennsylvania and has written numerous books, including one titled, “Democracy and Good Governance.”Congress is likely to stymie any efforts to pass anti-corruption reform. And many Peruvians will still be clamoring for change. But the reaction to Sagasti's appointment was decidedly different.Unlike Merino, Sagasti was immediately welcomed by international leaders including Organization of American States Secretary General Luis Almagro.“We trust in his capacity to guide the country through this crisis until the next presidential election,” Almagro wrote on Twitter.In his speech before Congress, Sagasti recognized the deep wounds the legislature must work to repair before the election. Wearing a black face mask and a purple tie, he called on lawmakers to work together to ensure that Peruvians feel recognized by an institution few trust. He also paid homage to the two young men who died during the protests.Protesters gathered Monday evening in cities around the country to light candles and leave flowers at vigils in their honor.“We can't bring them back to life,” Sagasti said. “But we can through Congress, and the executive, take action so this doesn't happen again."Moments later Sagasti walked out of Congress, approaching a crowd of people who cheered his appointment. He shook hands and waved. Some chanted, “Sagasti, the president!”“It couldn't have been anyone else,” Sandra Ramirez said as she watched the new leader move among the crowd. “We are going to hope for the best from him.”DES MOINES — U.S. Sen. Chuck Grassley, the oldest Republican currently serving in the Senate, has tested positive for coronavirus, he announced Tuesday afternoon."I’ve tested positive for coronavirus. I’ll b following my doctors’ orders/CDC guidelines & continue to quarantine. I’m feeling good + will keep up on my work for the ppl of Iowa from home. I appreciate everyone’s well wishes + prayers &look fwd to resuming my normal schedule soon," Grassley wrote on Twitter.The 87-year-old announced Tuesday morning that he was in quarantine while awaiting a test result after learning he’d been exposed to the virus. That test came back positive. He is the sixth member of the Senate to have reported a positive test."I learned today that I’ve been exposed to the coronavirus. I will follow my doctors’ orders and immediately quarantine as I await my test results. I’m feeling well and not currently experiencing any symptoms, but it’s important we all follow public health guidelines to keep each other healthy," Grassley said in a statement Tuesday morning.Grassley said Tuesday morning that he plans to continue working virtually from home, according to the statement. His spokesperson, Michael Zona, said Grassley can participate in nearly all Senate business aside from voting.The 87-year-old senator chairs the Senate Finance Committee and is the president pro tempore of the Senate, making him third in line for the presidency after the vice president and speaker of the House. He was first elected to the Senate in 1980.Grassley, currently serving his seventh term, often brags that he hasn't missed a Senate vote since July 20, 1993 when severe flooding damaged Iowa. That was more than 27 years ago. That streak of 8,927 consecutive votes ended Tuesday since the Senate has not allowed members to vote remotely during the coronavirus pandemic as the House has.Grassley holds the record for longest length of time without missing a vote in the history of the Senate. He broke the previous record, held by the late U.S. Sen. William Proxmire of Wisconsin, in 2016."I’m disappointed I wasn’t able to vote today in the Senate, but the health of others is more important than any record. My voting streak reflects how seriously I take my commitment to represent Iowans. Choosing not to potentially expose others to this deadly virus is obviously the right and responsible thing to do," Grassley said in a statement Tuesday afternoon.Grassley has completed his annual 99-county tour of Iowa this year, a tradition he's maintained every year he's been in the Senate.Zona said staff have been limiting contact with Grassley since the beginning of the pandemic and have been following the guidelines of the Senate physician regarding social distancing and mask wearing."Those who have been in contact with Sen. Grassley have been appropriately notified and are instructed to follow the advice of their physicians as well as all CDC and local health guidelines," Zona said in an email.Asked if Grassley knows where he was exposed to the virus, Zona said: "We will provide further details when we are able."Zona said Grassley will quarantine "for as long as his doctors recommend."Guidance from the Centers for Disease Control on when to quarantine following exposure to COVID-19 states: "You should stay home for 14 days after your last contact with a person who has COVID-19.""Even if you test negative for COVID-19 or feel healthy, you should stay home (quarantine) since symptoms may appear 2 to 14 days after exposure to the virus," the CDC's website states.In early October, Grassley said he would not seek a coronavirus test after attending a Senate Judiciary Committee meeting with a fellow senator who later tested positive for the virus. At the time, Zona said Grassley's doctors did not recommend he get tested since he was not within six feet of U.S. Sen. Mike Lee of Utah, who tested positive.Stephen Gruber-Miller covers the Iowa Statehouse and politics for the Register. He can be reached by email at sgrubermil@registermedia.com or by phone at 515-284-8169. Follow him on Twitter at @sgrubermiller.WASHINGTON – Sen. Lindsey Graham, a key ally of the president, said he has spoken with officials in a number of key states about the presidential election and ballot counting, raising questions about the senator's role as President Donald Trump continues to promote baseless claims about voter fraud. Georgia’s Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger accused Graham Monday of pressuring him to find ways to exclude or invalidate legally cast absentee ballots and reverse Trump’s loss in the state, an accusation the South Carolina Republican called "ridiculous." Graham told reporters on Capitol Hill Tuesday that he has also talked with officials in Arizona and Nevada, specifically asking questions about the process for validating signatures on ballots. Graham said he spoke with Arizona’s Republican Gov. Doug Ducey and an official in Nevada whose name he could not recall.Later, Graham backtracked and said he hadn't spoken with anyone in Nevada but had been "briefed about what they do in Nevada" but could not "remember by who" he'd been briefed. Asked in what capacity he was making these calls, Graham said he was making the calls “as a United States senator who is worried about the integrity of the election process nationally, when it comes to vote by mail.” He told reporters he was stepping in to check on other states because the future of the country hangs in the balance. He denied claims that he was pressuring officials to exclude ballots but was attempting to understand the method for which different states examine ballots.A guide to Trump's election lawsuits:Trump’s legal challenge dispute election results as presidency is called for Biden'Dark winter':Biden says lack of coordination with White House on COVID-19 is biggest hurdle to transition“What I’m trying to find out is how you verify mail-in ballots,” he said, adding that there should be a bipartisan method in examining signatures and verifying ballots in states due to the expansion of mail-in voting this cycle. "The question I have is who verifies the signature. And if it's a single individual, I don't like that idea. I think it should be bipartisan. What I'm trying to do is say we want bipartisan observers when it comes to counting the votes and all that good stuff."Patrick Ptak, a spokesman for Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey, told the Arizona Republic Graham's call was simply to learn more about the state's process. “He was calling about the certification process for ballots and Arizona’s system. Sen. Graham has been praiseworthy of Arizona and our process," Ptak said in a phone interview. "He did not ask for anything, to my knowledge. It was a call about how Arizona does things."Graham's disclosure of speaking with officials in battleground states comes just one day after Raffensperger detailed his conversation with in an interview with The Washington Post. The Republican Secretary of State said Graham questioned whether Raffensperger had the power to reject certain absentee ballots, something Raffensperger said he interpreted as a suggestion to toss out legally cast votes.Graham asked him whether political bias might have caused elections workers to accept ballots with non-matching signatures, Raffensperger said, and asked whether workers could throw out all absentee ballots in counties with higher rates of non-matching signatures.Graham disputed that and said his conversation with Raffensperger was to merely "find out how the signature stuff worked" and said he “did a good job of explaining to me how they verify signatures.” He said the suggestion that he was attempting to pressure Raffensperger to toss ballots was "ridiculous." Election updates today:Graham says he's reaching out to state officials on mail-in voting, Sen. Grassley quarantinesGraham has donated $500,000 to the president's legal efforts, where Trump and his campaign have argued baseless accusations of voter fraud in multiple states where Trump lost to President-elect Joe Biden. Asked about Graham's efforts, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., didn't weigh in on whether the contacts were appropriate. He instead outlined that each state runs their own elections and highlighted the lack of foreign interference in this cycle. Fellow Republican Sen. Roy Blunt of Missouri said he didn't see anything wrong with Graham contacting the officials. "I mean every senator can talk to anybody who will pick up the phone and talk to them and any secretary of state should be willing to talk to any senator who calls them in my view," he explained. "I didn't see it as troublesome."Democratic Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut said officials in these states shouldn't "give a hoot what a United States senator says to you." "I have no idea what Sen. Graham said but there is no reason any secretary of state should feel intimidated," Blumenthal said, pointing back to his days as an attorney general and getting similar calls from politicians. "I'm not going to pass judgment on what he is doing because I don't know exactly what he is doing," Blumenthal said of Graham's conversations with state officials. "It really depends upon what he said, but I'm going to certainly presume he was careful to avoid any violation of law. But the judgment should be made by people who know exactly what he said."Fellow Democratic Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island similarly did not pass judgement on Graham but said it came down to the rationale behind the calls. "If all he’s trying to do is get information, people are entitled to do that," Whitehouse said. "If he’s trying to influence the way they perform their duty, that becomes a bit problematic. And without knowing what was said, I can’t tell which is which."Contributing: Maria Polletta of the Arizona Republic MIAMI – Two years after Fidel Castro’s takeover of Cuba in 1959, Margarita De Castro was in trouble. The communist government was imposing its will across the island, and picketers demanded the young telephone operator face a firing squad after she was accused of setting fire to Havana’s largest department store. Terrified, she snuck out of her job at the telephone company where protesters were gathered and called her father, who paid $8,000 for someone to forge the date on her expired passport. She fetched some clothes and her diamond ring from an armoire in her home, kissed her newborn son goodbye and boarded a flight to Miami.Alone and penniless, she began her life in the United States, working at a Miami Beach hotel, eventually becoming a banker and raising four sons on her own.The 79-year-old refugee said her experience in Cuba drove her to become a Republican, voting for the GOP in almost every election since becoming a citizen in 1972. She never seriously felt that communism could follow her to the United States – until the 2020 presidential election."I feel like I am living what happened in my country 40 years ago," De Castro said. For many Americans, the idea of a presidential election devolving into a months-long battle for control of the nation may be unprecedented, but for many Latino supporters of President Donald Trump – many of whom escaped authoritarian regimes themselves – it raises old ghosts. There is no evidence of election fraud, but many fear covert socialists are in cahoots with the media in an attempt to rob a sitting U.S. president of power.“People used to say Communism can’t happen in Cuba, and look how that turned out,” De Castro said on a recent afternoon as she played with her great-granddaughter in her home in West Miami, a working-class Cuban American enclave in South Florida where the majority of votes were cast for Trump. De Castro said her big fear is Vice President-elect Kamala Harris. "She's another AOC," she said referring to U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who has described herself as a Democratic socialist. Harris has generally stopped short of embracing many of the policies championed by the progressive wing of the Democratic Party. Almost two weeks after the election, Trump is refusing to concede. Instead, he has continued to summon the support of his 73 million voters, soliciting “election defense funds” and mounting an aggressive legal campaign aimed at challenging the results in a handful of states where President-elect Joe Biden holds small but significant leads.Trump and his supporters have pointed to ballots being cast by dead people, malfunctioning equipment and counting absentee ballots received after Election Day as evidence of their claims. The Department of Homeland Security, however, put out a statement Thursday calling the Nov. 3 election "the most secure in American history." In Florida, where Biden lost by 375,000 votes, Republicans succeeded in casting the former vice president as a “Trojan horse for socialism," linking Biden to Ocasio-Cortez and Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who was criticized during the Democratic primary for praising Cuba's communist literacy program. “When you have national Democratic leaders praising Fidel Castro’s indoctrination programs and hailing neo-Marxists as ‘the future of the party,’ it communicated to our community that the Democratic Party does not respect our values,” said Giancarlo Sopo, a Cuban American communication strategist on the Trump campaign. "We simply voted accordingly, as did many other Latinos – like Colombians and Peruvians – who want nothing to do with socialism and the progressive agenda.”Now, with Trump refusing to accept the election results, many Latino Trump supporters said they feel they are replaying dark chapters of their history.Carolina Tejera, 44, a soap opera actress, was outraged watching TV channel after channel project Biden as the 46th president of the United States. It wasn’t only CNN and MSNBC that made her livid, Tejera said: “Fox News, too.”The Venezuelan American flashed back to the moment radical populist Hugo Chavez first won the Venezuelan elections in 1998. The leftist leader relentlessly antagonized the United States while pushing his socialist agenda in the South American country during his 14 years in power.“When Chavez first won all the channels were ecstatic – they celebrated it on air,” Tejera said. “Newscasters here seemed happier than the American people.” What really got under Tejera’s skin, however, was news networks' en masse decision to cut off Trump’s Nov. 5 live remarks after he wrongly claimed victory in the election. Trump also claimed, with no evidence, there had been fraud in states that Biden carried by thousands of votes.  USA TODAY was among the outlets that removed the video from its platforms. Editor-in-chief Nicole Carroll explained the reasoning behind the decision, saying the president's remarks were "undermining Americans’ confidence in the democratic process." Instead, USA TODAY published a comprehensive story on the president's speech.  “That’s censorship. It’s the kind of thing you only see in socialist regimes,” said Tejera, who cast her first vote ever in a U.S. election for Trump in 2016. During the 2020 campaign cycle, she traveled across the country to almost a dozen Trump rallies.  “If this country has been the target of terrorist attacks, presidential assassinations, why are people so shocked that there could be voter fraud,” Tejera wrote on her Instagram account, which has more than 362,000 followers. The actress and model regularly shares her pro-Trump views and has recently taken to share purported electoral fraud memes, videos and commentary. Tejera and other GOP voters have also criticized social media platforms that have flagged the president's tweets as false. In February, Twitter announced it would begin labeling tweets as "manipulated media." Facebook said in May that while it would not perform fact-checking on paid ads, it would remove posts misleading people about the elections. Some of Trump's supporters, including Tejera, also have been targeted by these practices. Stephen Armas, a Cuban American recruiter for IT companies based in Colorado, said voters should be able to read anything freely and do their own research without interference, saying the "amount of censorship bestowed on Donald Trump is absolutely outrageous." "I never thought I would see this in the United States of America," said Armas, 31.He added: "As the son of Cuban immigrants I know all about a political party changing narrative, censoring and pushing their own agenda; and if you disagree, you're silenced."Long before Election Day, many Latino voters have received misinformation about the election that has shaped how they view Biden and Trump.While social media platforms began flagging misleading posts in English earlier this year, a barrage of Spanish-language conspiracy theories targeted Latino voters across battleground states. Those posts went largely unnoticed and remained unflagged until late in the campaign cycle. Claims ranged from supporters of the QAnon conspiracy theory movement trying to take down the president to groups burning down people's homes if they voted for Democratic candidates. Radio Caracol, a news station in South Florida, aired a 16-minute paid program in August telling listeners the country would "become a dictatorship run by Jews and Blacks" if Biden won the election. The station's executives later apologized.The barrage of misleading news intensified after Election Day, with posts about widespread fraud becoming more prevalent on social media channels and WhatsApp messaging groups. In the 24 hours after Election Day, disinformation in Spanish eclipsed interference with the Kremlin-backed Russian Internet Agency in 2016, The New York Times reported. Hosts from various Spanish-language AM radio stations in Miami said the president's allegations should be "thoroughly investigated" and opened up their phone lines, taking calls from Latino voters who largely backed up their concerns with misinformation they received or saw on social media.  "Han hecho trampa," a caller said in Spanish. "They cheated.""This is a function of the self-curated information silos," said Fernand Amandi, a Florida-based Democratic consultant and pollster. "They are watching television stations listening to radio programs, or going to internet sites which reinforce the fact that (Trump) did win."Andy Canales, chairman of Latino Texas PAC, which focuses on electing Latinos to public office in Texas, said he has noticed widespread misinformation on the Spanish-language Facebook sites of his parents, who are naturalized citizens from El Salvador. Many Salvadorans fled to the United States as refugees from 1980 to1992 amid the Central American country's civil war between the military-led government and Marxist guerrillas. Videos touting Trump as “chosen by God” and allegations of widespread voter fraud are constant Facebook posts, Canales said. Canales said he and his friends, who also have immigrant parents, have struggled to counter the misinformation.“It’s difficult to explain the Electoral College, the proliferation of votes, mail-in ballots. … It’s difficult to explain all of that in Spanish,” he said. “We’re really struggling.”Although arguably less effective, Democrats also took a page out of the GOP book, casting Trump as a would-be caudillo, or strongman, likening him to Castro, Chavez and Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro. One ad stated they were all "cut from the same cloth."Many Cuban American Trump voters, meanwhile, seemed to disregard the fact that Trump hired an attorney in 2008 to register the Trump trademark in Cuba, as reported by the Miami Herald. For decades, the mere mention or attempt to do business in Cuba would have buried any presidential hopeful's attempt to reach the White House. “That was before he was president of the United States," said U.S. Army Col. Johnny De la Cruz, a top veteran of the Bay of Pigs invasion of 1961 and president of Assault Brigade 2506, the CIA-sponsored group of Cuban exiles that led the effort to overthrow the Cuban leader. "He did what any normal businessman would do."Joseph Vitriol, a senior researcher at Stony Brook University in New York, said people who lived through autocratic regimes are more prone to hypervigilance. "In this heightened state, they perceive reality and look for cues of the places they fled," explained Vitriol.Vitriol, a political psychologist who specializes in conspiracy theories and false news, said the greater risk is misinformation over time. "It's a drip, drip, drip undermining institutions."Socialism undertones are also playing out as a GOP strategy across all voting blocs, including the Senate runoff race in Georgia. Recently, a video resurfaced of Castro speaking at a church in New York during his 1995 trip to the United States. Georgia Democratic Senate candidate Raphael Warnock worked as the church's youth pastor at the time. In Miami, public support for the GOP shows no sign of calming down. On Wednesday, the Facebook group Cubans 4 Trump is calling for a "night of prayer for the nation."Some Trump loyalists, however, have started to call for a smooth democratic transition – whether the president concedes or not. William Villar, a Cuban American Trump voter who came to the United States at age 5, said he would back the election results as "a dutiful American," saying, "I'm not a Trump-lican, I am a Republican."Villar, a 26-year-old Navy veteran and Miami resident, said "whoever wants to follow Trump after fraud allegations are dismissed and proper investigations are conducted, want to follow a dictator like Chavez or Fidel.""You can't stay in power just because you got elected," he said. "That's a dictatorship, not a democracy."Contributing: Rick Jervis in TexasTALLAHASSEE, Fla. – A two-year investigation by the Tallahassee Police Department into the horrific sexual exploitation of a young teenage girl netted a staggering amount of arrests – with more than 170 people charged over recent months.On Tuesday, TPD Chief Lawrence Revell and state and federal officials announced results of Operation Stolen Innocence, a highly secretive investigation into the commercial sex trafficking of the girl, who was 13 and 14 when the alleged offenses occurred.The investigation, which police officials declined to even acknowledge for months, was likely the biggest of its kind in Tallahassee’s history, Revell said.Some 106 people were charged with felonies, including human trafficking, lewd and lascivious battery on a child under 16 and production and possession of child pornography. Another 72 people were charged with misdemeanors, including solicitation of prostitution.Those swept up in the investigation include a former write-in candidate for local office, a P.E. teacher and a former chairman of the Seminole Boosters, Inc., a fundraising arm for Florida State University athletics. Several of the defendants are women, charged with helping to arrange paid “plays” with the girl in exchange for cash."I know it's hard to believe that something like this happens here in our community," said Lorena Vollrath-Bueno, felony chief for the State Attorney's Office. "But it does."The investigation began in late 2018 after investigators spotted the girl in an online sex-for-pay listing. TPD’s Special Victims Unit set out to rescue the child, who cooperated in efforts to bring charges against the people who exploited her. Revell praised the police work that yielded the arrests."The arrests in this operation are the culmination of the diligent work from our dedicated investigators, who have worked tirelessly to bring justice to the victims in this case," he said. "I cannot say enough about the work that you all did and how proud I am of each of you.”Numerous agencies worked with TPD in the investigation: the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Florida, the U.S. Marshals Service, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, the State Attorney’s Office and the Leon County Sheriff’s Office.U.S. Attorney Larry Keefe vowed to continue going after child sex traffickers. Nearly 20 of the defendants, including some from out of state, face federal charges.“We in local, state and federal law enforcement are all working together as a team to dismantle their networks and to pursue, prosecute and punish those who are involved,” he said. “Operation Stolen Innocence is an excellent example of how all levels of law enforcement can put it all together and get it done, to take down a child trafficking network right here in our community.”Police would not discuss details that could identify the victim – including whether her mother was involved or charged in the sex trafficking ring. A number of defendants told investigators during sworn interviews that the girl’s mother wouldn’t allow anyone to have sex with her unless they brought money or drugs, according to police reports. Others described encounters that happened inside a filthy apartment and hotels and motels across town.The meetings were arranged over text messages, Facebook and other social media and apps, leaving a vast electronic trail of evidence that took investigators months to unravel. Elizabeth Bascom of TPD, one of the lead investigators, called the girl’s exploitation “horrific.” She said the abuse likely began even before her 13th birthday.Chief Revell said the girl is “on the road to recovery, and she’s doing well given the situation.” Bascom said she plans to testify in court, though it’s unclear at this point how many of the cases will go to trial.“She does have things to say,” Bascom said. “She was able to say that this has seriously impacted her life, and it is very difficult at times. But she is working to get her life back.”Vollrath-Bueno, a veteran prosecutor of child sex crimes, said human trafficking is a $150 billion global industry, with nearly two-thirds of the profit coming from commercial sexual exploitation.She said estimates suggest 50,000 people are trafficked each year in the United States alone.“The exact numbers ... are hard to define because human trafficking, like many crimes, lives in the dark,” she said. “It is notoriously under-reported.”Vollrath-Bueno said victims can be adults or children, male or female and exploited for sex or labor. In the U.S., she said, the average age a child enters the sex trade ranges from 12 to 14.“Children with low visibility in the community, unstable home lives, mental health issues, drug issues, frequent runaways, are most at risk,” she said. “I say ‘most’ because any child can be at risk.”Investigators urged victims and people who are aware of victims to speak out. People can report information to the Human Trafficking Hotline by calling 1-888-373-7888.For a complete list of those charged, click here.Follow reporter Jeff Burlew on Twitter: @JeffBurlewMore:Pentagon to withdraw troops from Afghanistan, Iraq in Trump's waning days1 federal prison, 8 deaths:Report details COVID-19's early march through the systemUSA TODAY'S coverage of the 2020 election continues this week as states prepare to finish certifying their vote counts after President-elect Joe Biden's victory in the hard-fought presidential race. President Donald Trump has yet to concede the race as Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris meet with transition advisers and prepare to take office in January.Be sure to refresh this page often to get the latest information on the election and the transition.U.S. Sen. Chuck Grassley, the oldest Republican currently serving in the Senate, has tested positive for the coronavirus, he announced Tuesday afternoon."I’ve tested positive for coronavirus. I’ll b following my doctors’ orders/CDC guidelines & continue to quarantine. I’m feeling good + will keep up on my work for the ppl of Iowa from home. I appreciate everyone’s well wishes + prayers &look fwd to resuming my normal schedule soon," Grassley wrote on Twitter.The 87-year-old announced Tuesday morning that he was in quarantine while awaiting a test result after learning he’d been exposed to the virus. That test came back positive.Read the full story.– Des Moines RegisterVice President-elect Kamala Harris was greeted by her Republican Senate colleagues with well wishes and compliments on the Senate floor Tuesday afternoon. The good tidings came as the Senate blocked President Donald Trump’s nomination of Judy Shelton to the Federal Reserve Board.Republican Sens. James Lankford, Mike Rounds, Tim Scott and Ben Sasse were all seen greeting and congratulating Harris on her and President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in the presidential race. Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham even gave Harris a fist bump.“How is the food fight behind you in California?” Lankford asked Harris, according to CNN. The comment  an apparent reference to the brewing fight among California Democrats to fill her soon-to-be-vacant Senate seat.Control of the upper chamber will be determined by two Senate runoffs in Georgia on Jan. 5. If Democrats win both races, the Senate will have a 50-50 split of both parties, with Harris as the tiebreaker.Such a scenario would mean that Harris would remain deeply involved in the Senate despite moving on from Congress. Harris is expected to be an especially influential voice in the White House regardless, as Biden said during the VP search he wanted a partner in the role he could trust.Harris was elected as California’s junior senator in 2016 after serving as the state’s attorney general. She quickly gained a reputation on Capitol Hill as an incisive cross-examiner during Senate hearings. Her rhetorical skills made her a progressive icon in the Trump era, which propelled her to a presidential campaign and, soon, the vice presidency.– Matthew BrownPresident-elect Joe Biden met virtually Tuesday with defense, intelligence and foreign affairs advisers as part of his preparation for taking office Jan. 20 in the absence of formal national security briefings that are traditionally provided.President Donald Trump continues to challenge the results of the election in federal court, so the General Services Administration hasn’t initiated a formal transition for Biden. But the former vice president and 36-year senator from Delaware assembled his own group of outside experts and former government aides for an online meeting at The Queen theater in Wilmington, Delaware.The meeting came the same day the Trump administration announced further U.S. troop reductions in Iraq and Afghanistan.Biden, who said he’s spoken to 13 heads of state, said he planned a foreign policy reflecting the country’s values and needs. He asked the experts to brief him on the biggest challenges facing the country and how to make sure diplomacy and the military meet those challenges.“I just wanted to get your input on what you see ahead,” Biden said. “To state the obvious, there's no presidential responsibility more important than protecting the American people, so I appreciate you taking your time and I am anxious to hear what you all have to say."Participants in Biden’s meeting included retired Army Gen. Lloyd Austin of central command that oversees Iraq and Afghanistan; retired Army Gen. Stanley McChrystal, who led troops in Afghanistan; retired Navy Adm. William McRaven, who headed the special operations command; Tony Blinken, a former deputy secretary of State and deputy national security adviser; Avril Haines, former deputy national security adviser; Nicholas Burns, former undersecretary of State; and Samantha Power, former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations.Several of those officials are reportedly under consideration for similar posts in Biden’s administration.– Bart JansenPresident-elect Joe Biden on Tuesday spoke to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, continuing his series of congratulatory phone calls with world leaders after winning the election this month.Biden also spoke to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and Chile's President Sebastián Piñera, bringing Biden's post-election conversations with foreign nations to 13.Netanyahu’s office described the talk as “a warm conversation” and said “the President-elect reiterated his deep commitment to the State of Israel and its security.”Netanyahu told Biden “the special bond between Israel and the US is a fundamental component of Israel's security and its policy,” the prime minister’s office said in a tweet. “The two agreed to meet soon in order to discuss the many issues on the agenda and reiterated the need to continue bolstering the steadfast alliance between the US and Israel.”Netanyahu, a strong ally of President Donald Trump, first congratulated Biden in a video posted on Twitter Nov. 8, one day after Biden crossed 270 electoral votes to secure the presidency. But Netanyahu had refrained from calling Biden the “president-elect” until Tuesday. "The president-elect thanked the prime minister for his congratulations and reiterated his steadfast support for Israel’s security and its future as a Jewish and democratic state," according to a readout of the phone call from Biden's transition team.Trump forged a strong relationship with Netanyahu in part by embracing controversial pro-Israel policies, such as recognizing Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights, a disputed territory the United Nations considers "occupied" by Israel. But their rapport often seemed based less on good chemistry than good politics – for both men – as they each faced their respective re-election battles.Trump-Netanyahu:How two leaders reap political rewards from their cozy relationshipIn Biden, Netanyahu has an old and trusted friend – someone who will be more predictable on foreign affairs, even if he is less tolerant of Netanyahu's hardline policies. Biden also spoke to Israeli President Reuven Rivlin.Modi tweeted that he congratulated Biden, reiterated “our firm commitment to the Indo-US strategic partnership” and discussed “our shared priorities and concerns” such as addressing the Covid-19 pandemic, climate change and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific Region.He said he also congratulated Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, who is set to become the first woman, first African American and first Indian-American vice president.“Her success is a matter of great pride and inspiration for members of the vibrant Indian-American community, who are a tremendous source of strength for Indo-US relations,” he wrote.Biden last week kicked off the tradition of speaking to world leaders following his election win with western allies – Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany, France and Italy – and later Japan, South Korea and Australia. He also spoke to Pope Francis.– Joey Garrison and Deirdre ShesgreenSouth Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, an ally of the president, has called officials in multiple swing states about election results and how they verify ballots.Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger accused Graham on Monday of pressuring him to find ways to exclude or invalidate legally cast absentee ballots and reverse Trump’s loss in the state, Raffensperger said in an interview with the Washington Post.Graham told reporters on Capitol Hill on Tuesday he has also called officials in Arizona and Nevada about the election, specifically to question the process for validating signatures on ballots. Graham said he spoke with Arizona’s Republican Gov. Doug Ducey and an official in Nevada whose name he could not recall.Asked in what capacity he was making these calls, Graham said he was making the calls “as a United States Senator who is worried about the integrity of the election process nationally, when it comes to vote by mail.”The South Carolina senator told reporters he was stepping in to check on other states.He denied claims that he was pressuring officials to exclude ballots. “What I’m trying to find out is how you verify mail-in ballots,” he said, adding that there should be a bipartisan method in examining signatures and verifying ballots in states due to the expansion of mail-in voting this cycle.– Christal HayesPresident-elect Joe Biden named nine White House aides on Tuesday, largely rewarding campaign staffers with plum assignments in his administration.Jen O’Malley Dillon, Biden's campaign manager and only the second woman to steer a successful presidential campaign, will become deputy chief of staff.Steve Ricchetti, a longtime Biden adviser and lobbyist, will become counselor to the president.Rep. Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, who was national co-chairman of Biden's campaign, will become senior adviser to the president and director of the White House Office of Public Engagement.Biden team:Joe Biden names 9 top White House appointees, including Rep. Cedric Richmond and campaign manager O'Malley DillonBiden fleshed out his White House staff despite President Donald Trump continuing to fight results of the election in court. The staffing announcements followed Biden’s naming of Ron Klain, another former aide, as his chief of staff.“I am proud to announce additional members of my senior team who will help us build back better than before," Biden said in a statement. "America faces great challenges, and they bring diverse perspectives and a shared commitment to tackling these challenges and emerging on the other side a stronger, more united nation."– Bart JansenSen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, is in quarantine after being exposed to COVID-19, he announced Tuesday."I learned today that I've been exposed to the coronavirus. I will follow my doctors' orders and immediately quarantine as I await my test results. I'm feeling well and not currently experiencing any symptoms, but it's important we all follow public health guidelines to keep each other healthy," the senator said.Grassley plans to continue working virtually from home, according to the statement.The 87-year-old senator chairs the Senate Finance Committee and is the president pro tempore of the Senate, making him third in line for the presidency after the vice president and speaker of the house. He was first elected to the Senate in 1980.– Sean Rossman and Stephen Gruber-MillerPresident-elect Joe Biden put the potential impact of the Trump administration's refusal to cooperate with his transition team in stark terms on Monday, saying "more people may die" if they are not able to coordinate on management of the coronavirus pandemic.Despite insurmountable vote counts, the president has continued to refuse to concede the race, baselessly insisting the election was stolen, citing false claims about widespread voter fraud. Amid his legal challenges to the election results, his administration has not authorized funds needed to initiate the transition, shared the president's daily intelligence briefing with Biden or coordinated with Biden's coronavirus team.Biden said formalizing the transition to his administration would help him pull together a serious and consistent plan for dealing with the pandemic while choosing his personnel and coordinating with business and labor officials.“It would make it a lot easier if the president were to participate,” Biden said.Biden said that while Monday's news of second successful vaccine in early trials was important, the important work of giving to more than 300 million Americans lay ahead, and a coordinated transition would speed that process along."Getting a vaccine and a vaccination are two different things,” Biden said. “The sooner we have access to the administration’s distribution plan, the sooner this transition would smoothly move forward."– William Cummings and Bart JansenPresident Donald Trump intends to order the withdrawal of U.S. troops from war zones in Afghanistan and Iraq, according to two administration sources.The cuts would take effect by mid-January, according to the sources who were not authorized to speak publicly. Trump is scheduled to leave office on Jan. 20. President-elect Joe Biden would have the authority to reverse Trump’s order after he takes power.There are about 4,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan and a few thousand in Iraq. Trump has vowed to end what he has referred to as "endless wars" in those countries. The United States has had troops in Afghanistan since 2001 after the 9/11 terror attacks, and in Iraq since the 2003 invasion.Troop withdrawals:President Trump is expected to order troop withdrawals from Afghanistan and IraqUnder the plan, which the sources said is being finalized, there would be about 2,500 U.S. troops total in each country once the drawdown is completed.Trump has reduced troop levels in both countries since taking office. However, officials at the Pentagon have pushed back on precipitous withdrawals, arguing that reductions should be based on security conditions in each country.– David Jackson and Tom Vanden BrookWASHINGTON – President-elect Joe Biden signaled Tuesday he intends to draw on longtime, loyal aides with deep government experience when he enters the White House next year – breaking with the anti-establishment approach President Donald Trump embraced after his election four years ago.With a series of personnel announcements Tuesday, the shape of the team that will occupy the West Wing after Jan. 20 came into sharper focus, with Biden turning to several aides who worked for him as vice president and others who either served President Barack Obama or have lengthy resumes from elsewhere in government. "It’s a lot of experience," Phil Schiliro, former director of legislative affairs for Obama, said of Biden's picks, adding that they should help him get up and running quickly. Biden is starting the work of staffing his White House even as Trump continues to dispute the results of the Nov. 3 election, pursuing a series of lawsuits in battleground states such as Pennsylvania and Michigan. The Trump administration, meanwhile, has so far also held off on beginning a formal transition.    More:Biden names 9 top White House appointees, including Rep. Cedric RichmondMore:Klain named Biden's chief of staff, first White House official picked Biden's appointments, which included Steve Ricchetti, a longtime adviser and lobbyist, and Rep. Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, represented a departure from many of Trump's early appointments of outsider figures to top White House jobs – from strategist Steve Bannon to son-in-law Jared Kushner. Trump was limited in part because of the aggressively anti-establishment route he took to the presidency, experts said. Ricchetti will serve as a counselor to Biden, the campaign said Tuesday. Richmond will direct the White House Office of Public Engagement. Those appointments were among several Biden aides have announced in recent days, including Ron Klain, who will serve as White House chief of staff. Klain is a Washington veteran with White House experience – including as a former chief to Biden when he was vice president. "This is one area where a VP or former VP is ideally situated to build a White House staff: The ability to draw on their own staffs or those of the president with whom they served," said John Burke, a political scientist at the University of Vermont, adding that Biden appears to be naming a team that has both experience and loyalty to him. "Challenge ahead: Will they also function as an effective team?" Burke said. "Will they play well with each other?"Trump ran a campaign in 2016 that rested heavily on a promise to shake up Washington – "drain the swamp" became a stump speech mantra. And while he named some well-known figures to posts, such as former White House chief of staff Reince Priebus, many others were plucked from his campaign or business empire. "It helps that Biden has been out of office for only four years and can draw on these experienced people," said James Pfiffner, a professor emeritus of public policy at George Mason University who co-authored the book Organizing the Presidency. "Donald Trump was at a great disadvantage because he was not able or willing to call on experienced Republican staffers."Four years later, Biden's campaign represented a 180-degree turn – not just on policies but also style. The former vice president who served 36 years in the Senate ran in part on having the experience and relationships needed to steer the nation through its fight with COVID-19, economic challenges and tensions with longtime allies.The early picks also indicate a commitment to diversity in the West Wing, with several people of color named as staffers Tuesday. Three of the staff announced Tuesday are Latino. Richmond is a former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.  Biden met virtually Tuesday with defense and foreign affairs advisers. The group included several well-known national security and military figures, such as retired Army Gen. Stanley McChrystal, who led troops in Afghanistan, retired Navy Adm. William McRaven, who headed the special operations command, and Tony Blinken, a former deputy secretary of State and deputy national security adviser.Several of the officials are under consideration for posts as well. Biden is expected to begin naming Cabinet members in the coming days. "I think we have to renew America's leadership and put the United States back at the head of the table," Biden told the group Tuesday. The emphasis Biden is placing so far on Washington experience may rub some Democrats the wrong way, highlighting a divide within the party the former vice president is likely to confront often. Some liberal groups such as Justice Democrats have called on the president-elect to pick more progressive candidates for top jobs.The group slammed Biden's choice of Ricchetti and Richmond in particular Tuesday, calling them "corporate-friendly appointments" and warning that Biden risks "fracturing the hard-earned goodwill his team built with progressives to defeat Donald Trump."Other top jobs announced Tuesday included Jen O’Malley Dillon, Biden's campaign manager, as deputy chief of staff. O'Malley Dillon worked on Obama’s 2012 and 2008 campaigns and is a former executive director of the Democratic National Committee. Mike Donilon, named as a senior adviser on Tuesday, was previously an aide to Biden in the vice president's office and worked on six presidential campaigns.Dana Remus, the Biden campaign's general counsel, was named White House counsel. Remus had been general counsel to the Obama Foundation and the former president's personal office. During the Obama administration, she served as deputy assistant to the president and deputy counsel for ethics. "It also seems that several of these designated staffers have the stature and experience with Joe Biden that they will be willing to bring him bad news and disagree with him, as Biden was able to do with Barack Obama," Pfiffner said."Contrast with the whole Trump White House staff," he added. WASHINGTON – The Pentagon announced plans to reduce troops levels to 2,500 in Afghanistan and Iraq, leaving a residual force in both countries as President Donald Trump is scheduled to leave office.The announcement comes one week after Trump sacked senior leaders, including Defense Secretary Mark Esper, and installed a slate of officials who support his aim. Among them is acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller. Miller, an Army combat veteran who served in Afghanistan and Iraq, called the withdrawal prudent, well-planned and coordinated. Members of Congress and allies were informed this morning.“This is consistent with our established plan and strategic objectives,” Miller said.Miller did not take questions from reporters.Esper and Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have advocated for reducing the American presence there only when security conditions allowed. But a senior Defense Department official, who was not authorized to speak publicly, said two conditions had been met: national security in the United States will not be threatened and the remaining troops will be able to assist the government in Afghanistan and Iraq.There are about 4,500 troops in Afghanistan and 3,000 in Iraq. The withdrawal would be completed by Jan. 15, 2021, just five days before President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration. It falls short of Trump's vow to end American involvement in those countries.Robert O'Brien, Trump's national security adviser, said Trump had fulfilled his pledge to “put a stop to America’s endless wars." The remaining troops will mostly defend embassies and assist allies, O’Brien said. Trump found support, opposition and trepidation for the announcement.Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., wrote a letter to Miller saying a majority of Americans favor an end to the war in Afghanistan but have been ignored by policymakers."The American people deserve an end to this war," Hawley wrote. "They deserve to know their sons and daughters will not be put in harm’s way unless it is absolutely necessary. And they deserve to see their tax dollars actually being used to defend them – from Chinese domination, above all – or reinvested at home, in their families and communities.”Sen. Mitt Romney, R-Utah, criticized Trump's move as politically motivated.“The decision to withdraw our troops from Afghanistan, Iraq, and potentially elsewhere should not be based on a U.S. political calendar," Romney said in a statement. "The Administration has yet to explain why reducing troops in Afghanistan – where conditions for withdrawal have not been met – is a wise decision for our national security interests in the region. Sen. Tammy Duckworth, D-Ill., blasted the move, saying the reduced military presence would expose the remaining troops to danger."This is the wrong way," said Duckworth, a combat veteran who lost both legs in Iraq. "We want our troops home, but let's not bring them home in body bags, and that's potentially what's going to happen if this president gets his way and puts his own political timeline ahead of our national security." Sen. Jack Reed, D-R.I., the ranking member of the Armed Services Committee, said Trump disregarded advice from military leaders and is putting troops and allies at risk.“There’s a right way and a wrong way to do this," Reed said in a statement. "President Trump is once again choosing the wrong way and we can’t let U.S. national security and our relationships with steadfast partners become a casualty of President Trump’s wounded ego."The U.S. has had troops in Afghanistan since October 2001 after the 9/11 terror attacks. They sought the al-Qaida militants who had planned the attack there and received support from the militant Taliban government. Since February, the Trump administration has been negotiating with the Taliban to reach a peace deal with the Afghan government that would allow a withdrawal of American forces there.American troops invaded Iraq in 2003 based on flawed intelligence that indicated Saddam Hussein possessed weapons of mass destruction and posed a threat to the United States.NATO countries, including the United States, have about 12,000 troops in Afghanistan."We now face a difficult decision," Secretary General Jens Stoletenberg said in a statement. "We have been in Afghanistan for almost 20 years, and no NATO ally wants to stay any longer than necessary. But at the same time, the price for leaving too soon or in an uncoordinated way could be very high. Afghanistan risks becoming once again a platform for international terrorists to plan and organise attacks on our homelands. And ISIS could rebuild in Afghanistan the terror caliphate it lost in Syria and Iraq."Contributing: Christal HayesSouth Dakota's high rates of COVID-19 and low virus regulation have sparked criticism even as some dying of the virus there don't believe it poses a real threat.That's according to Jodi Doering, a South Dakota nurse who has gained national attention for her account of working on the front lines in a state where leaders have long minimized the impact of the virus and refused to implement rules like mask mandates."I have a night off from the hospital. As I’m on my couch with my dog I can’t help but think of the Covid patients the last few days. The ones that stick out are those who still don’t believe the virus is real," Doering wrote in a Saturday tweet. "They tell you there must be another reason they are sick. They call you names and ask why you have to wear all that 'stuff' because they don’t have COViD because it’s not real. Yes. This really happens."In an interview with CNN, Doering said her description wasn't about a single patient. She tweeted after her frustration boiled over, as she recalled numerous patients whose dying words echoed the same theme: "This can't be happening. It's not real."'This is unacceptable by any standards':The Dakotas are 'as bad as it gets anywhere in the world' for COVID-19While many patients accept that they are sick with the virus, the ones who do not will often lash out in anger and grasp at other explanations, suggesting they have the flu or even lung cancer, she said. Doering said she often watches these patients' conditions deteriorate as she tries to convince them to say goodbye to loved ones.Other health professionals have accused South Dakota's leaders of also being in denial.“You in the Dakotas … you knew it was coming,” Dr. Ali Mokdad, a professor at the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington in Seattle, told USA TODAY this month. “You denied it ... even today you are denying it.”Mokdad was responding to South Dakota Republican Gov. Kristi Noem saying her state's per capita death rate was better than New York's over the course of the pandemic. 'Our neighbors, our family members':Small-town hospitals overwhelmed by COVID-19 deathsMokdad said such comparisons are misleading, given how early and hard New York City was hit this spring. He pointed to a number of factors that have made both North and South Dakota vulnerable to the virus' spread, including higher rates of preexisting conditions and economic inequality, in addition to health care that lags behind the U.S. standard.Tuesday data from the COVID Tracking Project shows that South Dakota and neighboring North Dakota continue to have the highest per capita rates of COVID-19 infection and death in the nation.False claims about the election process are spreading online in wake of the 2020 vote. The USA TODAY Fact Check team is dedicated to verifying claims and fighting misinformation. Here's a list of recent fact-checks related to the 2020 election:Fact check: Pennsylvania voters exposed to COVID-19 can still votePennsylvania officials did not "attempt to silence voters" exposed to COVID-19 by telling them via letter they can't vote in person. Letters have been sent to Pennsylvanians exposed to the coronavirus since the beginning of the pandemic, and the letter makes no mention of the election. Fact check: Poll watcher turned away at Philadelphia polling station in misunderstandingA poll watcher was turned away from a Philadelphia polling station due to a legal misunderstanding, but he was allowed back in after the mistake was recognized. This appears to be an isolated incident. Fact check: 'Nothing wrong' with Kentucky county's voting Nov. 3, clerk saysA Facebook post made on Oct. 13 about a voting holdup in Fayette County, Kentucky, was shared as if it was made on Nov. 3. While there was a brief hold up in voting the day the post was created, the Fayette County clerk said the delay was mischaracterized in the post – and the timing of the post's share is misleading. Fact check: Video misrepresents timing and severity of Scranton ballot-scanning machine outageVoting machines did go down in several polling districts in Scranton, Pennsylvania, the morning of Election Day, but all machines were up and running in under 2.5 hours. The video, labeled "BREAKING," was shared several hours after the issues were fixed. Fact check: Image does not show massive wall in front of White HouseThe image at hand does not show a massive wall in front of the White House; it's fabricated from a 2009 image. The National Park Service confirmed the photo does not resemble the actual fencing at the White House that federal authorities did put up. Fact check: Bricks in Detroit are for construction projects, not to incite violenceThere's no evidence bricks were purposely staged in Detroit to incite violence. Detroit police and the owner of a local construction company confirmed the bricks photographed are for construction projects. Fact check: No one was allowed to vote after Nov. 3Despite the post's claims, all Americans, including Democrats, must vote on or before Election Day. Mail-in ballots must be postmarked by that day.On counting votesFact check: Typo led to false post about Michigan votes showing up 'magically' for BidenA typo by a local Michigan county accounts for a sudden increase in Biden votes. The error was quickly corrected, and framing the incident as evidence of fraud is a gross mischaracterization.  Fact check: Democrat-led states did not stop counting votes for no reasonMail-in ballots take longer to count, so many states counted overnight. Reports of counting delays or stoppages were either explained or false.Fact check: That spike in the Wisconsin vote tally was expected and legitimate, not fraudThe vote tally in Wisconsin jumped at 3:30 a.m. on Nov. 4 because that's when officials finished counting the city of Milwaukee's absentee ballots, a group of votes expected to lean heavily left. It's false to call the spike in the voting count fraud. Fact check: No, Wisconsin did not take a break from counting election resultsSome of the state's election results arrived late due to an influx of mail-in ballots, not because officials took a break. And President-elect Joe Biden never held a large lead there. Fact check: Post-election ballot counting not dependent on state's partyNone of the seven key states left in play on Nov. 4 were fully Democrat-run, some more than others. And, the time it took to count ballots in each state can be explained by circumstances or state law.Fact check: Claim saying ongoing ballot counting is cheating, voter fraud is inaccurateA claim that ongoing ballot counting in Pennsylvania is cheating or fraudulent is false. Fact check: Votes in Virginia accidentally tallied for Biden, error quickly fixedThere were 100,000 Central Absentee Precinct ballots that were mistakenly entered for Joe Biden in Fairfax County's unofficial election results spreadsheet, but the error was quickly noticed and fixed. The county's spreadsheet has been amended, and the state Board of Election's total votes counted tally never reflected the errorFact check: Georgia ballot curing is not election fraudBallot curing is a legal process that ensures voters who cast their ballots by Election Day have a chance to see their vote counted. It's allowed in many states, and there is no evidence ballot curing was used to commit election fraud in Georgia.Fact check: Wisconsin county did not have a glitch that stole votes from TrumpA data entry error by the Associated Press left presidential totals transposed for several minutes, but election officials were not involved. The votes in Rock County were counted following standard procedure. Fact check: No, Wisconsin votes don’t have to be counted by 8 p.m. on Nov. 3Voters in line at 8 p.m. on Election Day can legally cast their vote. No judge made this ruling, and an earlier ruling from a federal judge — since upheld by an appeals panel — actually did the opposite, allowing any absentee ballots returned by Nov. 9 to be counted, as long as they were postmarked by Election Day.On calling statesFact check: 14 of the first 25 states called went to Trump, contrary to viral claimsThe claim that blue states were called immediately, while red states were not is false. Of the first 25 states called by the Associated Press, 14 were for Trump. There's also no evidence vote counting was paused to "find" ballots. Fact check: Key Senate races left uncalled due to uncounted ballots, not fraudThe five states still not called on Nov. 5 still had unreported votes outstanding. None of those states had elected new Republican senators when the post was made, though some races appear as if they may eventually. Fact check: CNN never made – or retracted – Arizona call for Joe BidenA spokesperson for CNN said the news network never called Arizona for Biden, and USA TODAY found no evidence indicating otherwise. Fact check: Political news website never called Pennsylvania for Joe BidenReal Clear Politics never called Pennsylvania or switched it from Biden as many social media posts claim, according to its co-founder and president, Tom Bevan, as well as its Washington bureau chief, Carl M. Cannon.Fact check: Some electoral maps show Trump leading with 232 votes. They're wrong.Epoch Times, Gateway Pundit, and EveryLegalVote.com show a different electoral vote count for two reasons: They exclude states with pending litigation or recounts, subtracting votes from Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Nevada, Arizona, and in one case Virginia, from Biden. They also called North Carolina for Trump, though the state was not done counting as of publication time and has not been called by the Associated Press. Their counts are incorrect. Fact check: Election unlikely to be decided in the House, even if Trump refuses to concedeWhile all presidential elections have the potential to be decided in the House of Representatives under the Constitution, the post fails to mention key steps needed in order for the election to go to the House. Even if the election results were contested and Trump doesn't concede, experts have agreed that it is unlikely for Trump to win the election this way.Fact check: Wisconsin has more registered voters than ballots castThe number for registered Wisconsin voters stated by a Facebook image is incorrect. Over 3.6 million voters were registered in the state as of Nov. 1, according to the Wisconsin Elections Commission, which denied there being more ballots than registered voters.Fact check: Wisconsin turnout in line with past elections, didn't jump 22% as claimedTurnout is measured as a percentage of eligible voters, not registered voters. Donald Trump Jr.’s figures use eligible voters for the 2016 figure but registered voters for 2020. Using the proper denominator for 2020 shows a turnout around 72%, firmly in the range of past presidential elections.Fact check: Milwaukee wards did not have more votes for president than registered votersThe numbers cited by Milwaukee City Wire do not match data from the Milwaukee County clerk’s office, which show the number of registered voters exceeded ballots cast.Fact check: States don't have more than 100% voter turnout in an electionUpdated data and individual state reporting show no state had more than 100% voter turnout for the 2020 election. The implication that Democrats doctored election results to show higher turnout than possible is based off outdated data that has since been updated. Fact check: There was strong Navajo support for Biden, but numbers cited in claim have changedThe statistics in the social media posts are inaccurate – possibly because they came from an article that cited returns before the full vote count was in. However, it is true that among the three Arizona counties that overlap the Navajo Nation, the vote went 58% to Biden and 42% to Trump, with some individual precincts on the Navajo Nation up to 90% for Biden.Fact check: Dominion voting machines didn't delete votes from Trump, switch them to BidenA national election security coalition announced on Thursday that "there is no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes, or was in any way compromised." Other experts and Dominion itself also condemned the claims.Fact check: Dual language ballots create confusion in Georgia's Gwinnett County dataThe Voting Rights Act ensures language assistance to individuals not proficient in English by providing electoral material and other information in their native language. Gwinnett County meets the thresholds to require electoral material in another language due to its sizable Latino or Hispanic population. Single ballots are thus printed on two sheets, one in English and one in Spanish, which are both counted in the county's election summary results and cannot be omitted under federal law. Fact check: North Carolina vote total for governor didn't exceed ballots castOur research of the official vote tally shows the assertion that only 4.5 million votes were cast is wrong, rendering moot any issue about a purported half-million or more "extra" votes. The vote totals for two gubernatorial candidates are correct for the time the claim was made, but they are incomplete, missing three candidates. Any suggestions of fraud are baselessFact check: Kanye West, other third-party candidates, not leading in Kentucky votingThe screenshot showing a number of third-party presidential candidates leading at the polls in Kentucky depicts fake election results. Kanye West has not received 40,000 votes in Kentucky.Fact check: Trump ballots were not thrown out as claimed by fake poll workerInstagram user @omg_seabass, who claimed to be an Erie County poll worker, is not in any way associated with the county, and the claim has been denied by Carl J. Anderson III, the chair of Erie County's Board of Elections. Additionally, poll workers do not have access to marked-up ballots in a way that would allow disposal. Fact check: False claim that viral video shows Trump ballots being burnedCity officials in Virginia Beach, Virginia, have confirmed that a video shows sample ballots. There is no evidence that ballots burning in a viral video were real ballots. Fact check: Partly false claim about discarded ballots in Pennsylvania amplified by Eric TrumpIt is true that nine military ballots were incorrectly discarded in a dumpster — seven of which were cast for President Donald Trump — were incorrectly discarded in a dumpster, but the incident was an error by a contractor, not evidence of cheating. The Pennsylvania secretary of state also stated that the situation was not "intentional fraud."Fact check: Post about stolen – and returned – Arizona ballots lacks contextIt’s true that stolen ballots were found under a rock in Arizona. But the ballots had not yet been opened or filled out, and all 18 of the stolen ballots were returned to the voters three days prior to Election Day.Fact check: Viral video claiming to show 'shredded mail-in ballots' is of printing wasteA company confirmed that the video is of printing waste, not ballots that were not delivered. The applications are blank, not "for Trump."Fact check: False claim that photo of discarded mail shows ballots cast for TrumpSeven discarded ballots for Trump were found in Pennsylvania after an error by a temporary contractor, not the U.S. Postal Service. Based on our research, the claim that a photo shows mail-in ballots cast for President Donald Trump discarded on the side of a road is false, and our research did not reveal discarded Trump ballots in California or Texas.Fact check: 2018 empty mail-in ballot envelopes in California dumpster spur false fraud claimsSonoma County officials confirmed that the photos on social media are of old empty envelopes from the November 2018 election and were recycled after the state's mandated 22-month ballot preservation period. Fact check: False QAnon claim that Trump secretly watermarked mail-in ballots to prove fraudA QAnon-adjacent conspiracy theory claims President Donald Trump had mail-in ballots secretly watermarked to prove Democrats committed fraud, but federal officials and ballot printers confirmed to USA TODAY that's impossible. Mail-in ballots are designed by local governments and ordered from private printers. Fact check: Wisconsin clerks followed guidance in place since 2016 about witnesses and absentee ballotsThe claim that the Wisconsin Election Commission may have violated state law by allowing clerks to "fix" ballots is missing context, because the policy in question has been in place since 2016, without objection, was brought forth by Republicans and was unanimously passed by a nonpartisan commission. Fact check: Mail-in ballots arriving after Election Day will count in some statesSome states won't count ballots received after Election Day, but many have extensions that allow for ballots to arrive and be counted after Nov. 3. Fact check: Michigan governor encourages voters to drop off ballots, not mail themMichigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer told voters to deliver their ballots in person, but she never explicitly told voters not to mail their ballots. At the time the claim was made, on Oct. 19, experts nationwide concurred that it was too late to rely on the mail to deliver ballots on time. Fact check: Pennsylvania mail-in votes need 2 envelopes to be countedThe Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled that officials can reject ballots that aren't properly enclosed in the required envelopes, and the state's secretary of state further confirmed the information is in an online voter guide. This claim is true. Click here for more general fact checks on voting by mail. Fact check: Viral video shows Pennsylvania poll workers fixing damaged ballotsCounty officials confirmed that workers were fixing damaged ballots and the video has been manipulated to crop out bipartisan observers who witnessed the process. The damaged ballots have been preserved, and Pennsylvania's Election Code states damaged ballots must be duplicated.Fact check: Videos showing crowd locked out of Detroit TCF Center with windows obstructed are missing contextViral videos depict crowds of challengers stuck outside Detroit's TCF Center as election workers count ballots inside behind obstructed windows. Statements from officials and witnesses clarify that Republican challengers were not more frequently denied entry, and the TCF Center's windows were covered because election workers felt intimidated.Fact check: State legislatures choose electors, but electors vote how state dictates It is true the Constitution grants state legislatures the power to choose electors for the Electoral College. But it is false to suggest that legislatures retain this authority after a popular vote on Election Day.  A "safe harbor" provision of the Electoral Count Act dictates changing the slate of electors after election day is a violation of federal law. Fact check: False claim that deceased Michigan man voted in 2020While the screenshots posted to social media are real and can be replicated, Michigan’s Secretary of State's office debunked the claim as “misinformation,” and USA TODAY found evidence to support that.Fact check: Lawsuit alleging errors in Detroit voter rolls was in 2019 and was settledThe report of a lawsuit alleging errors in Detroit voter rolls was accurate, but the posts fail to note that the case was filed in December and settled in June. It was not an issue in the 2020 election.Fact check: No evidence vote was cast in Joe Frazier's nameThere is no evidence to support this, and numerous election and county officials have confirmed that there is no evidence that dead people voted in Philadelphia. Fact check: No evidence that 14,000 dead people cast ballots in Wayne County, MichiganThe list has been investigated and it was found that some individuals on the list were either still alive, or not living in Michigan. Other examples cited were the result of date of birth errors. Ballots cast by dead people in Michigan are rejected and there is no evidence of fraud. Fact check: Claim that Pennsylvania case is proof of ‘dead people’ voting is under investigationWhile Pennsylvania’s ballot tracker does show a recorded mail-in ballot for a Denise Ondick, county officials have yet to determine this was an instance of voter fraud. Moreover, experts say voter fraud involving the deceased is rare.Fact check: Thousands of ballots were not sent to dead people or pets in Nevada, VirginiaAbout 500,000 voters in Virginia were sent vote-by-mail applications, not an actual ballot, that included incorrect return addresses. In Nevada, ballots for the primary election were returned due to a change of address. Election officials have not mailed absentee ballots in Nevada. Virginia started mailing absentee ballots on Sept. 18.Fact check: Sharpie is 'perfectly fine' for Michigan ballots. In some counties, it is 'preferred.'Multiple election officials confirmed that filling out ballots with a blue or black Sharpie is acceptable – and in some cases, even "preferred." Fact check: Arizona election departments confirm Sharpies can be used on ballotsThe Maricopa County Elections Department confirmed that Sharpies are preferred for filling out ballots. Arizona Secretary of State Katie Hobbs has also confirmed that ballots marked with Sharpie pens would be counted. Thank you for supporting our journalism. Youcan subscribe to our print edition, ad-free app or electronic newspaper replica here.Our fact check work is supported in part by a grant from Facebook.This fact check is available at IFCN’s 2020 US Elections FactChat #Chatbot on WhatsApp. Click here, for more.More than 1 million children have been infected with COVID-19. Joe Biden announced his White House staff picks. And in another episode of "Dolly Parton Saves America," she helped fund a vaccine. It's Ashley with the news to know.The Short List is a snappy USA TODAY news roundup. Subscribe here!Evidence increasingly shows that young people are not immune to the coronavirus. The number of U.S. infants, children and teens diagnosed with COVID-19 has surpassed 1 million, according to data released Monday by the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Children’s Hospital Association. The total of nearly 1.04 million kids was recorded Nov. 12 and includes 112,000 new cases, which were added last week. That was the highest weekly total of any previous week in the pandemic, the academy said. The report shows that children are still generally more likely than adults to have mild cases. At least 6,330 pediatric hospitalizations and 133 deaths have been recorded since May. But while the mortality rates remain low, some experts worry that a rise in cases among children may mean a rise in cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children later.President-elect Joe Biden announced Tuesday the appointment of nine White House aides, including counselors and senior advisers, as he continued to flesh out his staff even as President Donald Trump refuses to concede the election. Among Biden's newest appointments: A federal appeals court ruling may have torpedoed several federal lawsuits that seek to overturn Trump’s all-but-certified defeat by Biden. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit ruled Friday that Pennsylvania voters and a congressional candidate could not use certain constitutional arguments to back their claims that some voters were disadvantaged by changes to election rules spurred by the coronavirus pandemic and U.S. Postal System delays. On Monday, Trump supporters who used similar constitutional arguments in federal lawsuits in Michigan, Pennsylvania, Georgia and Wisconsin voluntarily dismissed their claims.That headline probably didn’t make much sense, but try singing it to the tune of Dolly Parton’s “Jolene.” Why? America has Dolly to thank (at least in part) for the promising Moderna vaccine. Dolly donated $1 million to help fund the vaccine, which has been found to reduce the risk of COVID-19 infection by 94.5% in preliminary trials. Parton has long been a patron of philanthropy (and saving America). There are still months to go before the vaccine becomes widely available to the public, pending Food and Drug Administration approval and peer review. But Parton's help gave a glimmer of hope to everyone affected by the virus and fans of the icon's work. The Pentagon has announced plans to reduce troops levels to 2,500 in both Afghanistan and Iraq, leaving a residual force in both countries as Trump is scheduled to leave office. The announcement comes one week after Trump sacked senior leaders, including former Defense Secretary Mark Esper, and installed a slate of officials who support his aim. The U.S. has had troops in Afghanistan since October 2001 following the 9/11 terror attacks. Currently, there are about 4,500 troops in Afghanistan and 3,000 in Iraq.This is a compilation of stories from across the USA TODAY Network. Want this news roundup in your inbox every night? Sign up for The Short List newsletter here.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- House Democrats on Tuesday asked the Supreme Court to postpone a hearing over the lawmakers' efforts to obtain secret grand jury material gathered by former special counsel Robert Mueller's investigators.House counsel Doug Letter said that with the installation of a new Democratic president and new members of Congress, the "newly constituted" judiciary committee will likely want to evaluate whether to proceed with the case."Under the circumstances, the committee respectfully requests that the Court remove this case from the December 2020 argument calendar," Letter's motion read. "The committee believes that postponing oral argument would be in the interest of the parties and the court and may conserve judicial resources."The judiciary committee has been fighting for the redacted grand jury materials since summer 2019 as part of its investigation into Russian electoral interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and potential collusion with the Trump campaign.The Justice Department argued earlier this year that the committee needs a court order to see the materials -- and even with that, without a judicial proceeding, they could only see redacted versions of the documents. An appellate court disagreed.In February, the Supreme Court took up the case and temporarily blocked the released of the documents as the case played out in the court.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- The half-nephew of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was taken into CIA custody, but his whereabouts are unknown, according to a recent report.The rescue of Kim Han Sol and his family was made possible with the help of Free Joseon's Adrian Hong Chang and Christopher Ahn, a former U.S. marine. The two men were also involved in a raid on the North Korean Embassy in Spain in 2019.Hong Chang first met Kim Han Sol in Paris around 2013 through a mutual contact. Kim, a teenager at the time, was wearing a pair of Gucci shoes, Hong Chang said."Never met a kid with so much money. Kim Jong Nam had stashed away a lot of cash during his life," he said, according to The New Yorker.Hong Chang purchased tickets for the family to go to Amsterdam and Ahn was planning to travel with the group, but CIA agents who appeared at the airport in Taiwan prevented Ahn from involvement."A team sent by Free Joseon, assisted by a Dutch human rights lawyer, was waiting at the gate" of the Dutch airport, the report says. "Yet they never came through the gate."Japan's NHK reported Tuesday two South Korean passport holders have been arrested for illegal seafood trading with North Korea. International sanctions ban North Korean exports of seafood.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- Four astronauts entered the International Space Station early Tuesday to hugs and cheers from the orbiter's current residents following a historic launch from Florida on board Resilience, SpaceX's Crew Dragon capsule.The hatch between the two space vessels opened at 1:02 a.m. Tuesday and NASA astronauts Michael Hopkins, Victor Glover and Shannon Walker, along with Soichi Noguchi from Japan's space agency, floated into the station where Russian cosmonauts Sergey Ryzhikov and Sergey Kud-Sverchkov and NASA astronaut Kate Rubins of Expedition 64 received them with open arms.The hatches are open and NASA's @SpaceX Crew-1 astronauts Shannon Walker, @Astro_Soichi, @AstroVicGlover, and @Astro_illini are the newest residents aboard the @Space_Station. Welcome aboard! pic.twitter.com/WYwC7jRVQk— NASA (@NASA) November 17, 2020"It's been an incredible journey," Hopkins told mission control during a welcoming ceremony on the space station. "I can't tell you how excited we were when that rocket lifted off the pad and then the last 27 hours have gone really smooth, actually. And we are so excited to be here."The SpaceX Crew 1 mission marks several milestones, including the first commercial spacecraft to transport astronauts to the station, the first operational flight under NASA's new commercial space program, the first time in years that the station has housed seven people and the first time ever to host that many people long term."We're humbled and we're excited to be a part of this great expedition," Hopkins said. "We're looking forward to the next six months and can't wait to get started."Hiroshi Yamakawa, director of Japan's space agency, told the crew their mission was an inspiration to all Japanese citizens suffering through the hardships of the coronavirus pandemic and that Noguchi's participation was significant for Japan and emblematic of their country's longstanding relationship with the United States."We are always behind you," he told the crew. "Good luck. And enjoy your time in space."The launch follows years of work before NASA officially certified the commercial spacecraft by Elon Musk's SpaceX company for the historic mission.Lueders said the SpaceX mission is the realization of a dream to crew transportation services to the station."It is the start of a new era," she said.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger said Tuesday an audit of the state's voting machines found no evidence of tampering.He ordered Pro V&V, a U.S. Election Assistance Commission-certified testing laboratory, to conduct the audit on a random sample of Dominion Voting Systems machines statewide, which used forensic techniques and verification processes to confirm no tampering, cyberattacks or election hacking."We are glad but not surprised that the audit of the state's voting machines was an unqualified success," Raffensperger said in a statement. "Election security has been a top priority since day one of may administration. We have partnered with the Department of Homeland Security, the Georgia Cyber Center, Georgia Tech security experts, and wide range of other election security experts around the state and country so Georgia voters can be confident that their vote is safe and secure."President-Elect Joe Biden led incumbent President Donald Trump by more than 14,000 votes in Georgia after the Nov. 3 election, leading to projections that he will win Georgia's 16 electoral votes. However, Biden's lead was within a 0.5% margin of Trump, triggering a recount under state law upon request.Under state law, after the hand recount is complete, the secretary of state's office will certify the statewide election results by Friday.Trump and some Republican allies made baseless allegations about Dominion Voting Systems, leading to the audit.Since the Nov. 3 election, Raffensperger, who identifies as a Republican, has faced pressure from the two Republican incumbent senators going into the runoff, Sens. Kelly Loeffler an David Perdue, to resign.Raffensperger said that he and his wife, Tricia, also received death threats in recent days.Graham denied that he made such a suggestion, calling it "ridiculous."On Tuesday, Raffensperger warned against activist groups helping to finance or organize efforts to move individuals to Georgia solely for the purpose of voting in the Georgia runoffs. He said they could be prosecuted for conspiracy to commit voter fraud under Georgia's Racketeering Conspiracy laws."Make no mistake about it, I will seek to prosecute those who try to undermine our elections to the fullest extent of the law," Raffensperger said in a statement.A recount Monday in Floyd County, located in northwest Georgia, found more than 2,600 ballots that hadn't been tallied in the original count, allowing Trump to gain nearly 800 votes with 1,643 of the new votes for Trump and 865 for Biden.Failure to upload votes from a memory card into a ballot scanning machine caused the problem, said Gabriel Sterling, the state's voting system manager."It's not an equipment issue," Sterling said. "It's a person not executing their job properly."Sterling added that the county's election director should resign.Floyd County Republican Party Chairman Luke Martin said the issue occurred during in-person early voting after an optical scanner stopped working. County election officials were supposed to rescan the ballots, but about half of them weren't recorded."It's very concerning," Martin said. "But this doesn't appear to be a widespread issue. I'm glad the audit revealed it, and it's important that all votes are counted."The issue in Floyd County narrows Biden's lead to 13,378 votes, but Raffensperger said that other counties' figures have closely matched the original numbers. Nov. 17 (UPI) -- Purdue Pharma, the maker of OxyContin, is scheduled to appear in bankruptcy court Tuesday to ask for approval of a proposed $8 billion settlement with the federal government over the opioid crisis.The charges resulted from a Justice Department investigation into how Purdue marketed its addictive painkiller for decades after it was brought to market in 1995.Purdue filed for bankruptcy last year as part of a $10 billion agreement that included $3 billion from its majority owners, the Sackler family, to settle more than 2,000 lawsuits from various local and state governments that sought to recoup taxpayer dollars lost to the crisis.Purdue was scheduled to appear Tuesday before Judge Robert Drain of U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York.The proposed settlement faces some resistance from two dozen states and groups representing individual opioid victims.Attorneys general from the opposing states asked U.S. Attorney General William Barr last month to block the proposed settlement, arguing that it would allow Purdue to continue selling OxyContin under government supervision as a public trust corporation.

Nov. 17 (UPI) -- The Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 fell for the first time in three days Tuesday after they both reached record highs Monday.Markets responded to a Commerce Department report that U.S. retail sales fell short of expert predictions, growing 0.3% in October."Waning momentum in consumer activity highlights the lingering fragility of individuals and households as local restrictions and safety protocols continue to impact incomes, revenues and opportunities," Lindsey Piegza, chief economist for Stifel, told MarketWatch.Pharmacy chains Walgreens Boots Alliance and CVS Health Corp also took a hit Tuesday, dropping 9.63% and 8.59% respectively as Amazon announced it would launch its own pharmacy service that would provide free delivery of medication for Prime members. Amazon shares rose 0.15% following the news.Tuesday's losses came after the Dow climbed to 29,950 points Monday after Moderna and Pfizer both announced positive data surrounding the effectiveness of their COVID-19 vaccine candidates."We just reached new highs, so it's natural for the market to take a breather and the slightly disappointing read on the retail sales front is facilitating that," Chirs Larkin, managing director of trading and investment product at E-Trade, told CNBC. "Without stimulus checks coming in, there's a bit of uncertainty in this sector in the short term."Nov. 17 (UPI) -- The United States has added more than 160,000 COVID-19 cases, according to updated data, and surges along parts of the West Coast ushered in new restrictions Tuesday.The three highest days have all come within the past week, including a record 177,000 cases Friday.Since the start of the pandemic, there have been 11.2 million cases and 247,300 deaths nationwide.Hospitalizations on Monday rose to 70,000 for the first time, according to the COVID Tracking Project.Restaurants in most counties will be limited again to outdoor and takeout service.Gov. Gavin Newsom has also strengthened the state's face covering guidance to mandate masks in public, with limited exceptions, and is considering a curfew.Washington state, which was one of the first areas of the United States to see an influx of cases in the spring, is now seeing another surge -- and ushering in new restrictions.Starting Tuesday, indoor dining, theaters, gyms and other non-essential indoor businesses are not permitted. Gov. Jay Inslee ordered the new measures last weekend, which also limit outdoor events to five people. For outdoor dining, that means a limit of five people to a table.More than 1 million U.S. children have now been infected by COVID-19, according to an update from the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Children's Hospital Association.Children represent almost 12% of all U.S. cases, the group said, and the overall rate is about 1,400 cases per 100,000 children."As a pediatrician who has practiced medicine for over three decades, I find this number staggering and tragic," AAP President Dr. Sally Goza said. "We haven't seen a virus flash through our communities in this way since before we had vaccines for measles and polio."Goza called on elected leaders to enact a new national strategy to "control the pandemic.""And that should include implementing proven public health measures like mask wearing and physical distancing," she said.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- A Trump campaign lawsuit seeking to block the certification of votes for President-elect Joe Biden in Pennsylvania faces a key hearing in federal court on Tuesday, as other efforts continue to fizzle.Late Monday, Brann denied a motion by the Trump campaign to delay the hearing because its entire legal team handling the lawsuit had dropped out.The departing attorneys only entered the case after the law firm that had previously represented the Trump campaign, Porter Wright Morris & Arthur, had also withdrew.The attorneys' withdrawal came after the suit was amended Sunday to drop many of the initial accusations questioning about 700,000 ballots and the vote counting process in the state.Pennsylvania has until Nov. 23 to certify its votes statewide.Tuesday's hearing follows other setbacks for the campaign's legal efforts.All four suits had all been backed by conservative attorney James Bopp Jr."Trump's legal path to overturn the election results appears 100% dead," election expert Richard Hasen, a law professor at the University of California, Irvine, wrote on his blog.Even if the Trump campaign succeeds in its case Tuesday, Hasen told USA Today that the complaint doesn't involve enough ballots to overtake Biden's margin of victory in Pennsylvania, which will award him 20 key electoral votes.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- Taylor Swift addressed Scooter Braun's sale of her master recordings on Twitter, stating that she has recently started re-recording her old music.Braun had purchased Swift's former record label Big Machine Label Group and effectively the singer's master recordings in June 2019. Swift expressed at the time discomfort at Braun owning her masters, her being unable to own them herself and stated that Braun has bullied her for years.Swift, on Twitter, said that Braun wanted her to sign an NDA stating that she would never say anything bad about him in order to have a chance at owning the master recordings. Swift said he wouldn't quote her team a price and then they were sold to Shamrock Holdings."As soon as we started communication with Shamrock, I learned that under their terms Scooter Braun will continue to profit off my old musical catalog for many years. I was hopeful and open to the possibility of a partnership with Shamrock, but Scooter's participation is a non-starter for me," Swift wrote."I have recently begun re-recording my older music and it has already proven to be both exciting and creatively fulfilling. I have plenty of surprises in store. I want to thank you guys for supporting me through this ongoing saga, and I can't wait for you to hear what I've been dreaming up," she continued.Swift also posted the letter she sent to Shamrock, explaining how she was willing to work with them but not if Braun will still profit off of her music.The re-recordings would allow Swift to own a version of her old music. The 30-year-old signed a new record deal with Universal Music Group in November 2018. The deal has allowed her to own her master recordings moving forward, which has included the albums Lover and Folklore. Nov. 17 (UPI) -- Amazon on Tuesday targeted the dominance of drug store chains with the launch of its online pharmacy, which allows users to complete entire prescription drug transactions without leaving home.Free two-day delivery of drug orders is included with Amazon Prime memberships.Investors saw Amazon's push into the $300 billion pharmacy market as a potential threat to dominant players in the field such as CVS and Walgreens -- their share prices fell by 7.5% and 10% respectively in pre-market trading Tuesday.Amazon began building its pharmacy operation after acquiring PillPack two years ago. PillPack offered customers who take multiple daily medications delivery of pre-sorted dose packaging, along with coordination of refills and renewals.PillPack co-founder TJ Parker, now an Amazon vice president, said the launching of online pharmacy is "bringing Amazon's customer obsession to an industry that can be inconvenient and confusing."We work hard behind the scenes to handle complications seamlessly so anyone who needs a prescription can understand their options, place their order for the lowest available price, and have their medication delivered quickly," he said.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- Retail sales in the United States during October grew by 0.3%, government figures showed Tuesday -- short of what most experts anticipated.The figure is up 5.7% from October 2019, but shy of the 0.5% most analysts expected.Tuesday's report also revised sales growth for September. A month ago, the department said retail sales grew in September by almost 2%, but it now says the gain was 1.6%."Retail trade sales were ... 8.5% above last year," the report states. "Non-store retailers were up 29.1% from October 2019, while building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers were up 19.5% from last year."COVID-19 restrictions and sagging consumer confidence are behind the sluggish growth, the report said.October is the first month of the fourth quarter. The Commerce Department said last month the U.S. economy grew by 33% in the third quarter, but a rise in coronavirus cases nationwide and new restrictions in some states are expected to slow growth even more for the rest of the year.New Jersey, New York and Ohio have already implemented new restrictions and California and Washington introduced stricter measures on Tuesday.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- More Americans now say they're willing to take a COVID-19 vaccine after barely half said two months ago that they would be, according to a Gallup survey Tuesday.When Gallup asked the same question in September, just 50% said they would take a COVID-19 vaccine that was approved by the FDA.The survey was taken between Oct. 19 and Nov. 1, before both Pfizer and Moderna reported that final-stage clinical data showed their respective vaccines are better than 90% effective."A vaccine for the disease is seen as key to returning Americans' lives to normal," Gallup wrote.The most recent poll also showed that men (61%) are more willing to take the vaccine than women (54%), while those aged 18-44 (62%) are more willing than those 45-64 (49%).Non-Whites appear to be most skeptical about a vaccine. Sixty-one percent of Whites said they would be inoculated, but just 48% of non-Whites said the same.Gallup polled almost 3,000 U.S. adults for the survey, which has a margin of error of 3 points.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- Maria Bakalova, who portrayed Borat's daughter Tutar in Borat 2, appeared on The Late Late Show to discuss the film and how it brought her mother to tears."And because she's kind of a masochist, obviously, she watched it twice and she was even more sad," the actress continued.Bakalova got the part over 600 others after her friend filmed her audition tape as a joke. She sent in more audition tapes and eventually left Bulgaria to film the project. Bakalova's mother was scared for her safety.Bakalova also discussed her Borat 2 scene with President Donald Trump's attorney Rudy Giuliani, who was filmed in a compromising position with her character Tutar.Giuliani has denied any wrongdoing in the scene which appeared to show him put his hands down his pants while he was with Bakalova in character, inside a hotel room. Sacha Baron Cohen's Borat quickly jumped out of a hidden closet to end the scene."Nerve-racking. My heart was racing and I was nervous. I was scared. Not scared because Sacha was in the closest," she said about the Giuliani scene.Borat Subsequent Moviefilm: Delivery of Prodigious Bride to American Regime for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan, is available to stream on Amazon Prime Video.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- Twitter launched Tuesday a new Fleets feature for users who want to tweet something less permanent."Twitter's purpose is to serve the public conversation -- it's where you go to see what's happening and talk about it," they said in the blog. "But some of you tell us that tweeting is uncomfortable because it feels so public, so permanent, and like there's so much pressure to rack up retweets and likes."The company said there is no indicator currently if someone takes a screenshot of a Fleet.Harris and Haveson said that tests in Brazil, Italy, India and South Korea show the feature serves its purpose.Fleets appear in the mobile Twitter app similar to stories in Instagram when users tap on profile pictures and see momentary videos, pictures or comments. When users tap on the "Share" icon at the bottom of a tweet, there is a new option to "Share in Fleet," and add stickers and emojis.Harrison and Haveson added that soon Fleets will include live broadcasting.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher Miller announced Tuesday that the United States plans to withdraw 2,500 troops from Afghanistan and Iraq by Jan. 15.Miller said he has spoken with and alerted congressional leaders as well as allies abroad."This decision by the president is based on continuous engagement with his national security Cabinet over the past several months, including ongoing discussions with me and my colleagues across the United States government," Miller added.The drawdown will come less than one week before President-elect Joe Biden is inaugurated into office. And the announcement comes a week after Trump fired former Defense Secretary Mark Esper after months of tension between the two.Before Esper's departure, he sent a classified memo to the White House recommending that troops not be reduced in Afghanistan until certain conditions were met, officials with knowledge of the memo told CNN. The recommendation was backed by U.S. Central Command head Marine Gen. Kenneth "Frank" McKenzie and Gen. Austin Miller, NATO's head of command in Afghanistan.Miller did not elaborate on whether those conditions for a drawdown in Afghanistan had been met.There are currently 4,500 U.S. troops in Afghanistan and 3,000 in Iraq.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- The Palestinian Authority announced Tuesday it will resume its relationship with Israel that has been stalled since May over Israel's plans to annex the West Bank.The spokesman added that leadership expects Biden to be different than the Trump administration and recognize international community agreements.The New York Times reported that while the Arab-Israel normalization agreement suspended annexation, Palestinians had been waiting to assure the annexation would not be carried out, and the election of Biden gave them the assurance they needed.An Israeli defense official also said the election of Biden as U.S. president facilitated the agreement.Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas ended cooperation in a security agreement with Israel and the United States in May over plans to annex parts of the West Bank, and also cut civilian ties between the countries, exacerbating economic issues such as work permits and trade amid the COVID-19 pandemic.Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had supported the annexation of territory on the occupied West Bank, which Palestinians have counted on for a future state.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- The U.S. Missile Defense Agency and U.S. Navy sailors aboard the USS John Finn intercepted and destroyed an Intercontinental Ballistic Missile-representative target with a Standard Missile-3 Block IIA missile during a flight test demonstration Monday.The destroyer used engage-on-remote capabilities through the Command and Control Battle Management Communications network as part of a defense of Hawaii scenario, and then launched a SM-3 Block IIA guided missile which destroyed the target."This was an incredible accomplishment and critical milestone for the Aegis BMD SM-3 Block IIA program," said MDA Director, Vice Admiral Jon Hill. "The Department is investigating the possibility of augmenting the Ground-based Midcourse Defense system by fielding additional sensors and weapon systems to hedge against unexpected developments in the missile threat."Hill said the demonstration -- that an Aegis BMD-equipped vessel equipped with the SM-3 Block IIA missile can defeat an ICBM-class target -- "is a step in the process of determining its feasibility as part of an architecture for layered defense of the homeland.""This successful intercept is a tremendous accomplishment and confirms we have inherent capability against long range ballistic missile threats that can be deployed to all our Aegis Baseline 9 ships and Aegis Ashore sites -- at any moment," Jim Sheridan, vice president and general manager at Lockheed Martin, which makes the Aegis system, said in a press release.Raytheon, which makes the SM-3 Block IIA ballistic missile defense interceptor, also released a statement Thursday touting the success of the test.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- The University of California system of higher education has reached a class-action settlement worth nearly $75 million with several women who'd accused a former gynecologist of sexual abuse.The University of California system Board of Regents approved the settlement, which would not require Heaps to admit to wrongdoing. The university system would pay the total amount."In a case involving widespread sexual misconduct, a class settlement compensates survivors who otherwise would not have come forward to seek relief from the courts, through a respectful and confidential process."If approved by a judge, the agreement would also mandate reforms at the University of California, Los Angeles, where Heaps was a gynecologist.The criminal case is scheduled to begin on Dec. 7. Heaps has pleaded not guilty, but his medical license has been suspended pending the outcome of the criminal case."Dr. Heaps has maintained his innocence ever since he was first accused, and this proposed settlement involving civil litigation, does not change that," Leonard Levine, an attorney for Heaps, said Monday. ""It involves no admission of guilt or liability by Dr. Heaps to any of the allegations against him."It is unfortunate that the Regents of the University of California have decided on this proposed settlement without ever once questioning Dr. Heaps' accusers, under oath, in a court of law."Heaps, the university system and the accusers all signed off on the settlement."The incidents described in the lawsuit reflect alleged conduct that is contrary to our values," UCLA Health said. "We thank the individuals who came forward and hope that this settlement ... is one small step forward for the patients involved."UCLA identified about 5,000 of Heaps' former patients and estimate there are 1,600 others whose records are no longer at the school. All are covered by Monday's settlement.

Nov. 17 (UPI) -- Partisan divides over the role of social media platforms in U.S. elections were on display Tuesday as Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey were called to answer questions from the Senate judiciary committee.While both companies took steps to curb the spread of misinformation in the weeks and months before Election Day, Republican panel members grilled the pair about what they characterized as bias against President Donald Trump and conservatives in general.During and beyond the presidential campaign, Twitter has repeatedly flagged Trump's tweets that contain inaccurate or misleading information. In many of those tweets, he attempted to claim victory in key battleground states and has repeatedly made unfounded accusations of voter fraud and misconduct."This kind of editorializing insulates people from the truth and it insinuates that anyone concerned about voter fraud must be crazy," Lee said. "These concerns may be out of the mainstream in Palo Alto, but they're not out of the mainstream in the rest of America."Lee also said Facebook's use of third-party fact-checkers allows the company to avoid accountability for its content moderation decisions to which Zuckerberg replied that users have expressed that they do not want to see misinformation but simultaneously do not want the company to act as "the arbiter of truth" related to content posted online.Judiciary committee Chairman Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., criticized Twitter and Facebook for limiting the exposure of two New York Post articles that made unproven and unverified claims about Hunter Biden, the son of President-elect Joe Biden.Facebook flagged the article for third-party fact-checking and Twitter initially blocked links to the New York Post articles altogether, but later reversed course.Zuckerberg and Dorsey, however, defended the way they navigated the tricky election campaign -- particularly after Russian hackers made repeated efforts online and via social media to interfere and influence the vote four years ago in Trump's favor.Dorsey said he recognizes that Twitter had made a mistake in the way it handled the New York Post stories, and agreed that social media companies need to be more transparent about why they label or remove posts."It is more or less opaque to the public and that's where I think we have a gap," he said. "We have transparency around our policies. We do not have transparency around how we operate content moderation ... the rationale behind it."Zuckerberg said he was pleased with Facebook's efforts."From what we've seen so far, our systems worked well," he said.Democratic panel members, meanwhile, criticized the Republican majority for even holding the hearing."This hearing is not a serious one. It is a political sideshow -- a public tar and feathering," the committee's top Democrat, Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, said in his opening remarks.Tuesday was the second time Zuckerberg and Dorsey appeared in the Senate to testify in the last three weeks. Late last month, they testified with Google CEO Sundar Pichai at a hearing about Section 230.Blumenthal chided Republicans for failing to call Pichai and Google to take part in Tuesday's hearing.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- Navy Secretary Kenneth Braithwaite said Tuesday in a speech that he has asked the Navy to establish a new fleet focused on the border between the Indian and Pacific Oceans.Braithwaite, speaking to a virtual audience attending a Naval Submarine League conference, also didn't say precisely where the fleet would be located."If we're really gonna have an Indo-Pacom footprint, we can't just rely on the Seventh Fleet in Japan. We have to look to our other allies and partners like Singapore, like India, and actually put a numbered fleet where it would be extremely relevant if -- God forbid -- we were ever to get in any kind of a dust up," he said.Braithwaite said the move would be a direct response to Chinese expansionism in the region.Biden's likely pick for defense secretary, Michele Flournoy, has also expressed concern about China's growing military might."We have to have enough of an edge, that first and foremost we can deter China from attacking or endangering our vital interests and our allies. That means resolve," Flournoy told Defense News.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- President-elect Joe Biden announced his first round of White House staff hiring, consisting mostly of campaign loyalists and supporters.Rep. Cedric Richmond, D-La., former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, will work as the White House Office of Public Engagement. Steve Ricchetti, a former campaign chair and with long ties to Biden will be a senior counselor.A longtime member of Biden's inner circle, Annie Tomasini, will act as the director of Oval Office Operations.Former Ambassador of Uruguay under the Obama administration Julissa Reynoso Pantaleon will serve first lady Jill Biden as her chief of staff while Anthony Bernal, one of her closest aides, will be a senior adviser.While Russia continued to hold out on recognizing Biden as the president-elect, he did receive phone calls from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Reuven Rivlin."Biden reiterated his deep commitment to the State of Israel and its security," Netanyahu's office said. "Prime Minister Netanyahu said the special connection between Israel and the United States is a cornerstone of Israel's security and policy. The two agreed to meet soon in order to discuss the many issues on the agenda and stressed the need to continue strengthening the strong alliance between the United States and Israel."Rivlin congratulated Biden and offered an invitation for him to visit Jerusalem."As a long-standing friend of the State of Israel, you know that our friendship is based on values that are beyond partisan politics and that we have no doubt that, under your leadership, the United States is committed to Israel's security and success," Rivlin told Biden.Nov. 17 (UPI) -- As COVID-19 continues to spread throughout the country, at least two members of the U.S. House of Representatives announced in the past 24 hours that they have tested positive for COVID-19 while a third was confirmed to be in quarantine after coming into close contact with a case.Bustos said she is experiencing mild symptoms but feels well and will be working remotely from her Illinois home until cleared by a physician. All those she had been in contact with have been notified, she added."I remain in good spirits," he said, adding that he hasn't attended a public event in more than a week and those he had been in contact with were being notified.He will continue to work remotely from home until he fully recovers, he said.Pocan went into quarantine the day he found out a test his mother had taken days earlier had returned positive, he said.He added he wore a mask during the entire trip with his mother and a test he took on Friday has returned negative.The announcements came amid surging cases throughout the United States with health officials reporting more than 100,000 new cases for the 13th straight day on Monday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.With more than 11 million infections, the United States is the sickest country to the pandemic.Late last week, Alaskan Rep. Don Young, the longest-serving Republican in congressional history and the oldest member in either chamber, said he had also tested positive for the virus.The Federal Bureau of Investigation’s newly released hate crime statistics show that Jews, who make up approximately 1.8 percent of the U.S. population, were overwhelmingly the most targeted in anti-religious hate crimes in 2019.The FBI’s report says 60.2 percent of the 1,715 victims of anti-religious hate crimes in 2019 were targeted based on the offenders’ anti-Jewish bias. This percentage is up from 56.9 percent of victims motivated by offenders’ anti-Jewish bias. The next most frequently targeted group in the anti-religious category are Muslims, at about 13.2 percent of the hate crimes recorded in 2019.While racial/ethnic/ancestral hate crimes have dropped slightly since 2018, anti-religious hate crimes were up from 18.7 percent in 2018 to 20.1 percent in 2019. In total, the FBI recorded 8,812 victims of hate crimes in the United States in 2019.Earlier in the year, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio came under fire for comments singling out Jewish communities for gathering despite COVID-19 lockdown orders.“My message to the Jewish community, and all communities, is this simple: the time for warnings has passed,” he wrote. “I have instructed the NYPD to proceed immediately to summons or even arrest those who gather in large groups. This is about stopping this disease and saving lives. Period.”My message to the Jewish community, and all communities, is this simple: the time for warnings has passed. I have instructed the NYPD to proceed immediately to summons or even arrest those who gather in large groups. This is about stopping this disease and saving lives. Period.— Mayor Bill de Blasio (@NYCMayor) April 29, 2020De Blasio did not deliver the same threats to any of the people who protested and rioted in the streets following the death of Geoge Floyd, a black man, despite the ongoing pandemic.New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo also targeted New York Jews, using decade-old photos from a rabbi’s funeral in 2006 to justify singling out the religious community for gathering despite lockdown orders.“We know religious institutions have been a problem,” Cuomo said during a Monday press conference. “These are pictures from the past couple of weeks. And these are just emblematic. … What did you think was going to happen?”Cuomo warns that if the Jewish community will not cooperate with the state on enforcing social distancing, services at houses of worship will be prohibited and greater enforcement will be in place on all gatherings.— Jacob Kornbluh (@jacobkornbluh) October 5, 2020As the New York Times noted in February, “Anti-Semitic violence in the New York area has been more frequent lately than at any time in recent memory, with three people killed in a shooting at a kosher supermarket in Jersey City, N.J., and five injured in a knife attack at a rabbi’s home in Monsey, N.Y,” causing more and more Jews to grow anxious about their well-being.In 2018, the New York City Police Department reported that more than half of the city’s hate crimes were in Orthodox Jew neighborhoods. The Federalist’s New York Correspondent David Marcus noted in 2019, a significant contributor to failing to address anti-Jew violence is the failure to acknowledge that many of those attacking Jews have been black.Despite speaking with the press Monday, Joe Biden remained silent on the political intimidation exercised by violent people on the left.Jews, who make up approximately 1.8 percent of the U.S. population, were 60.2 percent of the anti-religious hate crimes the FBI recorded in 2019.Eyewitnesses testify they saw approximately 40,000 irregular ballots arrive in vehicles with out-of-state plates during an early-morning poll worker shift change Nov. 4. That’s not even the half of it.Despite some Democrats’ high hopes that unity could be achieved once the bad orange man left office, it is clear that the mob is insatiable.Unrest is breaking out in cities again, as two days after the election, ballots have yet to be counted, with several states too close to call and litigation in the works.The dominant Big Tech companies’ power to control the access and availability of information was unmasked during the Donald Trump presidency. The full extent and intent of that power has been further exposed in the 2020 election.From Facebook, to Google, to Twitter, it is now clear that these companies have every intention of using the unprecedented control they have amassed, not to facilitate a diversity of speech and viewpoints, but to shape national narratives in the direction they prefer. Users—even those who are elected—will comply, or be banned.Twitter, in particular, has shed any pretense of being a platform interested in facilitating free expression. In 2011, Twitter CEO Dick Costolo characterized Twitter as “the free speech wing of the free speech party.” The sentiment was echoed a year later by Tony Wang, general manager at Twitter UK, who claimed the company’s founding principles compelled it to remain “neutral” about the content its users posted.Nearly a decade later, those sentiments have flipped. Twitter has spent the Trump years aggressing against the president, placing his tweets behind filters, blocking his press secretary, and censoring his Senate-confirmed advisors.The platform aggressively ran interference for the Joe Biden campaign, refusing to allow a New York Post story detailing corruption in the Biden family from circulating on its platform. Users were prohibited for weeks from sharing the story, and their accounts were locked if they did.Even the use of direct messages—Twitter’s supposedly private communication tool—was screened and filtered for wrong-think. That practice has continued outside of sharing the Hunter Biden story, casting doubt on Twitter’s claim that the company doesn’t read your direct messages. It is clear that, at least in some capacity, they do.All of this was under the guise of preventing “misinformation” from spreading on Twitter—that, presumably, could inform voter behavior. This made it all the more bizarre when Twitter’s deeply weird CEO, Jack Dorsey, claimed while under oath to the Senate Commerce Committee that the platform has no ability to influence election outcomes.Sen. Ted Cruz, who had asked Dorsey the question, appeared almost caught off-guard by the absurdity of the claim. Cruz responded with the obvious follow-up. If you can’t influence election outcomes, he said, then why do you moderate political content at all?But Twitter does moderate political content, and they very clearly do so in one direction. In the wake of the election, under the guise of moderating for “misinformation” and “fomenting violence,” the platform has banned the bombastic former Trump advisor Steve Bannon for stating that he’d like to see Dr. Anthony Fauci’s “head on a pike,” while happily allowing comedian Kathy Griffin to re-post her notorious photo of a beheaded Trump.Richard Baris, one of the few pollsters who was right about the 2020 election results, had his account blocked for tweeting his findings about voter fraud. And not just his account, but that of his business, his newsletter, and his wife. There was “no reason given,” he said in a post on Parler, where he had just opened an account.Parler, which has grown in popularity among conservatives as a Twitter alternative, is predictably being labeled as “a threat to democracy” by CNN. It’s not enough to kick conservatives off of Twitter. Narrative control is the goal. Any alternative, any other avenue of “freer” speech, must be shut down.Defenders of the social media platforms often do so in a vacuum. They defend Twitter’s content moderation as a private company expressing its First Amendment rights. Not only does this argument ignore that Twitter, like Facebook and Google, exercises its First Amendment rights in a privileged manner, it intentionally sidesteps the consequences Twitter’s actions have on Americans’ ability to consume news, think for themselves, and express their views away from Twitter.Social media platforms are no longer merely independent actors, facilitating information sharing and viewpoints. Increasingly, they inform the news. Although it has a far smaller market share than Facebook and Google, Twitter has the most news-focused users and a much broader share of continuous, minute-by-minute engagement by news outlets, media elites, elected officials, and public policy intellectuals. Their engagement with the platform drives, and very much determines, news coverage.“Though Twitter may not be a huge overall source of traffic to news websites relative to Facebook and Google, it serves a unique place in the link economy,” said a report by Nieman Labs in 2016. “News really does ‘start’ on Twitter.”Recall the absurd story in 2017 that Trump killed an entire pond of koi fish while on an official visit in Japan. Multiple news outlets breathlessly covered the story, speculating wildly about the fish and mocking Trump. That story, which was false, began with tweets—not filed stories—from news outlets and reporters. The tweets then directed coverage on multiple outlets.Tucker Carlson, who has the most-watched cable news show in the country, spent the summer covering the violent elements of the Black Lives Matter protests in ways that every other network refused to do. Much of the coverage he aired on his show came from videos posted to Twitter by reporters on the ground, outside of the mainstream networks.Earlier this month, Axios reported that newsrooms are planning “to invest more heavily in coverage of social media and internet trends as a way to observe political sentiment from a wider group of people.”Twitter does far less to facilitate the news than it does to make it. Thus its content moderation decisions have ramifications far beyond Twitter. They echo down the corridors of what makes news in America, and who is allowed to do it, and what ordinary Americans are allowed to say about it. This means Twitter plays an outsized role in creating, gatekeeping, and sustaining the national narrative.Twitter’s offline consequences extend beyond its manipulation of the news narrative, as Twitter is increasingly the woke mob’s favorite venue of cancellation.Late last week, a Twitter user with minimal followers complaint-tweeted at Target because it sold a book by Abigail Shrier questioning the wisdom of promoting irreversible transgender surgery and hormone therapy for children. Target subsequently banned the book, although it was later reinstated after public outcry.The Lincoln Project tweeted the images of two attorneys working for the Trump campaign, their emails, phone numbers, and photos alongside the phrase “make them famous.” Twitter allowed the tweet to circulate on its platform for hours before it was finally removed.Twitter does not drive these cancellation decisions as a matter of policy, but the platform’s role in the viral nature of cancel culture belies the notion that these are merely “private platforms” with no larger effects on free speech, free thought, and free behavior in America.They also raise troubling questions about how that role will evolve. As the left continues to push for a social credit system—that is, say or suggest wrongthink, get banned from polite society—what role will social media play as the reporting Stasi arm of the woke mob?Big Tech has grown from a handful of Silicon Valley startups to a handful of the most powerful companies in the world, exercising unprecedented control over minds, markets, behavior, and independent thought. They are changing how we live together.How we choose to deal with them, politically, is less a binary question of “regulation” or “government interference in business” than it is, truly, a question of the social order; of who sets the terms of social engagement. Is it a free people, speaking through their rights and representative government, or a set of corporations weaponized by an illiberal woke agenda controlling our news narrative, information gathering, and social and cultural compliance?Last Friday, California Gov. Gavin Newsom had to apologize. When the San Francisco Chronicle broke the news that Newsom, on Nov. 6, had attended a multi-family party for one of his staff in apparent violation of the gathering guidelines promulgated by his own administration, Newsom admitted a mistake.The governor issued a statement claiming “while our family followed the restaurant’s health protocols and took safety precautions, we should have modeled better behavior and not joined the dinner.” Just days later, he tightened the state’s lockdown, claiming a dangerous spike in cases threatened state health capacity and required Californians to stay home and businesses and churches again to close down.Newsom’s lavish dinner wasn’t the first instance — nor, likely, will it be the last — of Democratic politicians acting hypocritically since the start of the COVID-19 response. Indeed, countless Democratic politicians have violated coronavirus guidelines they imposed.Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser broke quarantine travel rules at a political rally for former Vice President Joe Biden, held the day after Newsom’s dinner. In August, Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney dined at an indoor restaurant in Maryland, even as indoor dining remained prohibited in the City of Brotherly Love. Closer to Newsom’s home, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif, got her hair cut at a San Francisco salon while such services remained prohibited by the city.Newsom’s real error lay in where he chose to violate the protocols: At the French Laundry, a restaurant with three Michelin stars in the heart of Napa Valley’s wine country. The fact that Newsom and members of his staff chose to “celebrate” there — in the middle of not just a pandemic, but an economic meltdown in the Golden State — shows the out-of-touch attitude of the governor and his staff.For those unfamiliar with the French Laundry and its surroundings, the restaurant sits in the small Napa Valley town of Yountville. While the entire Napa Valley features expensive real estate and a high cost-of-living, the area around Yountville has soared in popularity, due in large part to the French Laundry’s worldwide renown. Numerous hotels and spas in the area cater to well-heeled visitors, charging $300 to $500 per night (or more) for accommodations.The restaurant charges $350 for its tasting menu, which runs to approximately two dozen courses. While I appreciate a good meal and enjoyed the food at the French Laundry during a visit nearly three years ago, I didn’t find the dinner worth the high price tag to contemplate a repeat visit.With dozens of courses and servers constantly milling about, a meal at the French Laundry seems ostentatious under normal circumstances. A server told the party next to me “Just two more savory courses and then dessert” — turning the experience into something resembling a bad visit to Disney World (“We are NOT going back to the hotel until we’ve ridden ‘It’s a Small World’!”).But 2020 does not represent normal circumstances, by any stretch. At present, California’s economic environment ranks among the worst, which likely has something to do with the length and breadth of the state’s lockdowns.According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, California suffered from an 11 percent unemployment rate in September, ranking it third nationally behind tourism-dependent Hawaii (15.1 percent) and Nevada (12.6 percent). It speaks volumes about the effects of lockdowns on the economy that all five states that still have double-digit unemployment rates (Hawaii, Nevada, California, Illinois, and Rhode Island) have Democratic governors and Democratic legislatures.Amidst double-digit unemployment and suffering within his state, where did Newsom and his staff choose to have a birthday celebration? A place that serves food like this:I doubt that the nearly 2.1 million unemployed Californians — up roughly 1.3 million from September 2019 — will appreciate their governor dining on dishes like roasted cauliflower velouté and hand-rolled ricotta “agnolotti” with shaved white truffles while they have difficulty figuring out how to pay the rent or fund groceries for the month.If Newsom and his staff had chosen to patronize a local burger stand — yes, such places do exist in Napa Valley — that would have sent a welcome message about how the governor and his staff support area small businesses, including those that don’t have the deep pockets that come with an international brand and reputation. But that kind of gesture would require the governor and his political advisors to care about the interests of common citizens, a trait that leftist politicians consistently appear to lack.From Pelosi’s freezer piled high with $12-a-pint ice cream, to Barack Obama complaining about in Iowa what Whole Foods charges for arugula, liberal politicians don’t even pretend to inhabit the same world as working-class Americans. If the left wants to find reasons to explain its poorer-than-expected election showing, they would do well to start by examining the kind of elitist arrogance that Newsom and others so regularly display.Several defense experts lauded the Trump administration’s decision to proceed with troop draw-downs in Iraq and Afghanistan, but said the president could go further as he makes his way out in January.“He could rip the bandaid off and and end America’s longest war in a few weeks,” said Gil Barndollar, a senior fellow at Defense Priorities, a think tank, as President Donald Trump orders troops in Iraq and Afghanistan down to 2,500 each. There currently remain 4,500 U.S. troops in Afghanistan and 3,000 in Iraq. Each have witnessed a sustained U.S. military presence for 20 years.Logistically, Barndollar said during a Monday call with reporters, resources are there to bring the troops home. Trump “certainly has the ability to do this.” Tactically, Barndollar emphasized, it’s the threat of U.S. return to the region that will serve as the greatest tool to deter the its resurgence into a breeding ground of terrorism.Retired Lt. Col. Daniel L. Davis, a senior fellow at Defense Priorities who served two tours in Afghanistan, concurred with his colleague, and added there’s no reason the president shouldn’t disband U.S. troop presence in Iraq and Afghanistan altogether. Davis touted innovations in U.S. intelligence operations that have honed their ability to take out threats abroad from wherever they start.“This is good news,” Davis said of Trump’s decision, “but it’s not enough. There is no value in staying in Afghanistan in any numbers… We keep ourselves safe from terrorist threats no matter where in the world they come through.”The 2,500 troops being left behind, Davis said, “don’t prevent anything in either Afghanistan or Iraq.”While the president’s final effort to reduce the U.S. presence in the Middle East has earned the White House praise from some experts and ending Middle Eastern wars is supported by a large, bipartisan majority of American voters, Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell condemned the decision Monday.“A rapid withdrawal of U.S. forces from Afghanistan now would hurt our allies and delight the people who wish us harm,” McConnell said in a statement. “The consequences of a premature American exit would likely be even worse than President Obama’s withdrawal from Iraq in 2011, which fueled the rise of ISIS and a new round of global terrorism.”Yet the remaining 2,500 U.S. troops, said Defense Priorities Policy Director Benjamin Friedman, don’t do anything to serve American or Afghan interests. While some point to their presence gave the Afghans leverage in talks with the Taliban, Friedman said the leverage isn’t significant given the “presence is fleeing.”Friedman also faulted the administration for neglecting to touch troops in Syria, and instead remaining focused on Iraq and Afghanistan.“What is the mission now in Syria? I don’t think anyone knows,” he said.Several defense experts lauded the Trump administration’s lame-duck decision to proceed with troop draw-downs in Iraq and Afghanistan, saying more should be done.President Donald J. Trump fired Defense Secretary Mark Esper and will replace him with Director of the National Counterterrorism Center Christopher C. Miller.Sarah Huckabee Sanders writes that Trump commanded leading military officers to speed up a mission against ISIS and to bring US soldiers home.As the government lays out ever-changing guidelines for safeguarding the same military who sacrifice their lives all over the world, they risk killing freedom on the home front by restricting religious practice.I have been deployed for three July 4ths. Luckily there are still Americans who hold the ideas that built this country in high regard.On today’s edition of Federalist Radio Hour, Eric Kaufmann, professor of politics at Birkbeck, University of London, joins Federalist Publisher Ben Domenech to discuss shifting patterns among white voters, and how they impacted the 2020 election and polling.“Essentially they got this group [of white college graduates] wrong by something like 20 points, whereas the non-college whites didn’t get wrong by that much,” Kaufmann said.“You’ve got this sort of shy Trump group just concentrated amongst the well-educated concentrated in blue districts which is going to be much more reluctant to express their views and this is what I think really throws the polls out this time,” he added. According to Kaufmann, pollsters often underestimate the effect of patriotic, populist rhetoric on minorities who ended up voting for Trump.“I think there’s also a tendency to underestimate the potency of some of these issues for really conservatively-minded minority voters who are very much on board with them,” Kaufmann said.“Appealing to that kind of patriotism or national identity is probably a pretty wise strategy at least for the Republicans.”Listen here:Eric Kaufmann, professor of politics at Birkbeck, University of London joins The Federalist Radio to discuss 2020, polling, populism and more. A Biden administration will likely be rejoining the Paris Climate Accord, reinstating the Iran Nuclear Deal, and becoming more placatory towards China.Senior Research Fellow at the Faith & Reason Institute Mary Eberstadt joins the Federalist Radio Hour. Mollie Hemingway and Ben Domenech sit down with author and podcast host Michael Malice to discuss the blatant agendas pushed by mainstream media. From Title IX to critical race theory, Inez Stepman weighs in on how the culture war will evolve under a Biden-Harris administration.As we prepare for the ostensible Biden-Harris administration to assume power and declare sweeping national mandates related to COVID-19, energy, law enforcement, and the Second Amendment, we should also take note of the fact that the Democratic Party has, since 2016, built a solid foundation for new states’ rights that might save the American republic as we know it.The “resistance” that thrived during the Trump administration featured Democrat-run cities and states establishing so-called sanctuaries against enforcement of federal immigration law. As fears arose on the left that the Supreme Court could overturn abortion rights, blue states began passing laws that guaranteed the right to abortion up until birth. As Trump attempted to pursue a national policy to deal with the Wuhan virus epidemic, Democratic governors declared that the federal government had no right to infringe on states’ rights to deal with emergencies.These actions and others represent a definitive assertion of states’ rights against centralized policymaking by the president. Those who might be concerned about federal infringement of rights now that Democrats control the White House and at least one branch of Congress might find a welcome irony in this fortification of a new federalism courtesy of our friends on the left.Following the refusal by Democrat governors to support the Trump administration’s coronavirus policies, we now see Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves declaring that “we are not going to participate in nationwide lockdowns. … We believe that while they may make recommendations, that in this country under the Stafford Act when you have emergencies … those emergencies have to be state-managed, locally executed, and federally supported.”Reeves continued: “I don’t believe that there’s any constitutional or statutory authority for any president to shut down Mississippi’s economy. We will certainly fight that if it becomes necessary.” We can expect a lot more of that as other red-state governors refuse to obey dictates from Washington on this issue.After Democrats established sanctuary states and cities, we now see the Second Amendment sanctuary movement, which includes legislation in cities and states mandating noncompliance with federal laws and regulations that infringe on the Second Amendment. According to The Trace, “More than 400 municipalities in 20 states have now passed resolutions opposing the enforcement of certain gun laws passed by state or federal lawmakers. In other places, sheriffs say they won’t enforce specific gun safety laws and firearm confiscation statutes.”The typical pathway for those who seek to centralize power in Washington, when they are unable to pass laws in Congress, has been an end run through the courts. With the recent addition of Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court, however, in addition to numerous Trump-appointed federal judges, it appears increasingly unlikely that the courts will rubber-stamp current Democrat initiatives to overrun states’ rights, particularly in cases where those initiatives run counter to the Bill of Rights.This, of course, is why the Senate election in Georgia, which if Democrats win would grant them an effective majority in both houses of Congress, has become so critical. To cover for Democrats’ plans should they win the Senate through Georgia, one Democratic senator, Joe Manchin of West Virginia, has pledged he won’t support initiatives to pack the Supreme Court, end the filibuster, or admit new states to the union, among other leftist proposals.Were Roe v. Wade to be overturned, abortion laws will also be returned to states. This follows New York, Virginia, Rhode Island, and other Democrat states passing abortion laws that go beyond what even Roe permits. Further, local interests in the energy economy and the jobs that come with it might give pause to Democrats in states such as Texas and Pennsylvania on supporting a nationwide Green New Deal, or whatever version of it Joe Biden and Kamala Harris ultimately sign on to.The beauty of America’s model of federalism is that policy can and should be decided locally as much as possible, subject to the Bill of Rights. We are free to choose how we will be governed by choosing where we live. California, Illinois, and New York can implement their own lockdowns, tax increases, energy policy, gun restrictions, and abortion law. Those who prefer different policies can move to other states, as they are doing by the millions.We can be grateful to the left for the numerous precedents they have established in favor of state and local rights during the Trump administration. Americans have learned from the Democrats that they have the right to ignore and defy mandates from Washington when they overstep the federal government’s constitutional powers. The judiciary appears, even after Trump’s departure, very likely to support the rights of “resistance.” Let freedom ring!Sen. Marsha Blackburn of Tennesee accused Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey of abusing their power, silencing conservatives, and fueling cancel culture with their companies’ constant censoring of users.Blackburn explained during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing Tuesday that federal law, specifically Section 230, has enabled social media companies to grow without facing lawsuits or legal ramifications.“You have used this power to run amok. You have used it to silence conservatives. You have used it to build your list. You have used this power to act like you hold all the power that you can make these decisions,” Blackburn said. “You have driven this canceled culture because you have not called to account your moderators. You have refused to take responsibility for your employees and their actions.”Blackburn lectured Zuckerberg on the dangers of blacklists targeting certain groups of people.“Mr. Zuckerberg, do you think there is something wrong with an un-American blacklist tarring people from future employment, simply because they belong to a different political party?” Blackburn asked.“Senator, I generally agree that people should not be discriminated against because of political beliefs,” he replied.Blackburn quickly pointed out that, despite Zuckerberg’s reported feelings on political discrimination and hit lists, Facebook regularly censors conservatives.“You say you don’t keep a list. Obviously, you have a list, because there are some of us who are regularly censored and called down by your content moderators,” she said, noting that one of her recent Facebook posts discussing the Trump Accountability Project which is creating a blacklist of people who staffed for, donated to, or even endorsed President Donald Trump and his administration, was slapped with an “elections flag sticker.”Blackburn continued to echo her colleagues Sens. Mike Lee, Ted Cruz, and Josh Hawley in requesting that Facebook release its formulated censorship lists.“Do we want to see this list? Yes,” Blackburn said. “How have you built these lists? We want to know.”“You have refused to take responsibility for your employees and their actions so thereby reining you in on the issues of privacy, data security, content moderation, liability protections, defining who is a publisher in the virtual space, that is up to us because you have proven you do not have the will, the strength, the ability, and you will not accept the responsibility to do it for yourselves,” she continued.“You say you don’t keep a list. Obviously, you have a list, because there are some of us who are regularly censored and called down by your content moderators,” Blackburn said. “Mr. Zuckerberg, let me just ask you directly, under oath now, does Facebook coordinate its content moderation policies in any way with Google or Twitter?” Hawley asked. “You can take a policy position, but you don’t get to pretend you’re a publisher and get a special benefit under Section 230 as a result,” Cruz said.  ‘”All of our policies are focused on encouraging more speech,” the Twitter CEO told senators on Tuesday. It’s not enough to kick conservatives off of Twitter. Narrative control is the goal. Any alternative, any other avenue of ‘freer’ speech, must be shut down. Any time violent leftists ravage a city, we the people are treated to charitable news stories about mostly peaceful protests. Whenever Donald Trump supporters host enthusiastic rallies, the media depict them as deadly superspreader events rife with racist conspiracy theorists.The Washington Post this week included both in the same article. It lumped a small, antagonistic, left-wing counterprotest into a story that should have been about an exceptionally huge right-wing demonstration of peaceful Trump supporters at our nation’s capital.The piece, titled “After thousands of Trump supporters rally in D.C., violence erupts when night falls,” was leftist spin from start to finish. As former White House press secretary Ari Fleischer noted, an accurate account of real-life events would have been titled “After Peaceful Pro-Trump Crowds Gather, Left-wing Opponents Use Nightfall to Attack.” But who needs factual headlines? Everyone knows democracy dies in darkness, and accuracy dies at the Washington Post.A Reality-based, alternative headline would have been: “After Peaceful Pro-Trump Crowds Gather, Left-wing Opponents Use Nightfall to Attack” https://t.co/TF1t1Gweb9— Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) November 15, 2020The authors of this rally rundown hurled every insult imaginable at the pro-Trump crowd. Even when they were relaying true events — Trump supporters demonstrated peacefully until leftist opponents descended on the capital and clashed with them at night — they took every opportunity to run cover for attacks from the left while demonizing those on the right.For instance, why were these peaceful and patriotic Americans gathering in the nation’s capital? According to the Washington Post spin machine, it was “to falsely claim that the election had been stolen from the man they adore.”Why did the leftist agitators, or, as the Post called them, “the people who oppose their hero,” show up? Not to stir up strife and division, of course. No, leftist demonstrators were simply on-site to communicate truth to those right-wing nuts. According to the authors, the left showed up simply to deliver “a message the president’s most ardent backers were unwilling to hear: The election is over. Trump lost.”Not only did the Post writers grant equal legitimacy to the two gatherings, although the Trump crowd boasted tens of thousands of demonstrators throughout the day while the left’s agitators numbered about 300, according to the paper’s estimate, they conflated the tenor of two different events. The authors highlighted isolated instances of incivility among the gigantic pro-Trump crowd to downplay the criminal assaults of the leftist counterprotesters in the dark of the night.“While much of the day unfolded peacefully, brief but intense clashes erupted throughout,” the authors wrote, failing to distinguish from whom exactly these “intense clashes” originated. “Activists spewed profanity and shouted threats, threw punches and launched bottles. On both sides, people were bloodied, and at least 20 were arrested, including four whose allegiances remain unknown on gun charges. The chaos also left two officers injured.” Note that it wasn’t bad actors who hurt law enforcement personnel. It was “chaos’s” fault.BLM activist filmed sucker-punching man is a child sex offender recently released from prisonhttps://t.co/HOHlkjDM2a— Barrett Wilson (@BarrettWilson6) November 16, 2020The Washington Post writers were careful to mask the identities of the violent demonstrators in vague language and passive voice. For instance, “a man in his 20s was stabbed in the back.” They describe an “argument that exploded” in the middle of the night between a man holding a Trump flag and a group of agitators. “Suddenly,” the Post says, “police tackled two people in a crosswalk,” whom they failed to identify. Rather than attributing actions to the counterprotesters, the Post went for, “the appearance of counterprotesters sparked bursts of conflict,” implying strife materialized out of thin air when leftists were simply present.It wasn’t just about the physical confrontations, however. The Post’s framing of Trump and his supporters, absent any counterprotest, was also egregious. It first failed to communicate the magnitude of the pro-Trump event, opting instead only to bash White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany for “vastly exaggerating the crowd size.”Then in just two paragraphs, the Post managed to smear the right over four distinct things:The daytime demonstrations were urged on by Trump, who refuses to concede to Joe Biden or allow a formal transition to begin. On Saturday morning, as the president’s devotees remained in D.C. to fight for him, he headed to Trump National Golf Club in the Virginia suburbs for a round.After a week in which more than 750,000 Americans were diagnosed with the novel coronavirus, almost none of his backers wore masks. Among their ranks were white nationalists, conspiracy theorists and far-right activists carrying signs demanding action that was already being taken: ‘Count the legal votes.’First, Trump is an authoritarian who “refuses to concede to Joe Biden” (although litigation is ongoing across the country). Second, Trump cares more about golfing than his job or his supporters (although the media never cared much when Obama or any other president engaged in leisure activities).Third, Trump-supporters are science-denying grandma-killers (although the media and Democrat COVID-19 hypocrites have lost all credibility related to masks and science). Fourth, Trump supporters are ignorant, deranged, radical racists (a pervasive trope among leftist politicos and media elites). While it’s true that some fringe, alt-right types attended this gathering, they never turn out in numbers even close to Trump’s populist MAGA base — yet the minority of extremists get the majority of the Post’s coverage.Dropping any facade of objectivity, the Washington Post showed its hand with its blatantly partisan framing. Rest assured then that if the aforementioned violent instigators had been Trumpians, journalists this eager to drag the right would have been delighted to let us know. After all, the Post was happy to include not any photos of left-wing provocateurs, but action shots of MAGA-wearing folks with gritted teeth responding to agitators, or Proud Boys marching in a line.Meanwhile, the authors described the left-wing counterprotesters as Trump’s “black-clad detractors, many of whom had participated in racial justice rallies throughout the summer.” This is where the media’s utter disconnect from reality and lack of touch with ordinary Americans shines through. For anyone who has paid an ounce of attention since the beginning of the summer, this “racial justice rallies” descriptor for the mob violence, looting, and arson that ravaged our major cities, snuffed out a number of lives, destroyed minority-owned businesses and robbed their livelihoods just doesn’t work.It’s this major disconnect that makes one line of the Post article ring true: “On stark display in the nation’s capital were two irreconcilable versions of America, each refusing to accept what the other considered to be undeniable fact.”This idea of “two irreconcilable versions of America” describes the chasm between those who want to “Make America Great Again” and the politicians who call their gatherings “Klan rallies,” between those who want law and order and those who want to defund the police, between the 73 million Americans who voted to keep Trump in the Oval Office and the nearly 79 million who would stop at nothing to get him out. It describes the insurmountable discrepancy between the America its citizens see with their own eyes versus the one the media tell them is true.Ironically, this sorry excuse for journalism is one of the reasons the anti-establishment Trump was elected in the first place — and it’s the reason the more than 73 million Americans who voted for him a second term and the tens of thousands who gathered peacefully in the capital aren’t going anywhere any time soon.When questioned by Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing Tuesday, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey admitted that although he is not an expert in voter fraud, the social media giant’s warning labels on accurate statements about voter fraud are simply “linking to a broader conversation.”“Why is Twitter right now putting purported warnings on virtually any statement about voter fraud?” Cruz asked.“We’re simply linking to a broader conversation so people have more information,” Dorsey said.Cruz, however, shot back at Dorsey saying that Twitter’s decision to “add context” to posts with accurate and verified information is a policy decision.
“You put up a page that says ‘voter fraud of any kind is exceedingly rare in the United States.’ That’s not linking to a broader conversation, that’s taking a disputed policy position. And you’re a publisher when you do that.”“You can take a policy position, but you don’t get to pretend you’re a publisher and get a special benefit under Section 230 as a result,” Cruz added.Cruz pressed the issue further, asking if certain statements such as “absentee ballots remain the larger source of potential voter fraud” and “voter fraud is particularly possible where third party candidates and political party activists are involved in handling absentee ballots,” were in violation of Twitter’s policies. Dorsey said Twitter would most likely label the statements with a banner disputing the content to “provide more context.”“You’re right! You would label them because you’ve taken the political position right now that voter fraud doesn’t exist,” Cruz said, noting that the statements originated from former president Jimmy Carter’s Carter-Baker commission on election reform.When asked if Twitter would label a verified story about a Texas woman who committed over 100 counts of election fraud, Dorsey said that story would probably remain untouched. Cruz threatened to test the theory.Dorsey and Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testified in front of the committee to provide the Senators with more information to evaluate Section 230, which grants platforms like Twitter and Facebook immunity from liability for third-party content. Cruz slammed both social media platforms and Democrats for employing “totalitarian” tactics against those who disagree with them.“There is absolute silence for the Democrats speaking out for the citizens silenced by big tech,” Cruz said. “Instead, there is a demand to use even more power to silence dissent and that’s a totalitarian instinct that I think is very dangerous.”“There was a time when Democrats embraced and defended the principles of free speech. There was a time when Democrats embraced and defended the principles of the free press. And yet there is an absolute silence from Democrats speaking up for the press outlets censored by big tech,” Cruz added.“You say you don’t keep a list. Obviously, you have a list, because there are some of us who are regularly censored and called down by your content moderators,” Blackburn said. “Mr. Zuckerberg, let me just ask you directly, under oath now, does Facebook coordinate its content moderation policies in any way with Google or Twitter?” Hawley asked. “You can take a policy position, but you don’t get to pretend you’re a publisher and get a special benefit under Section 230 as a result,” Cruz said.  ‘”All of our policies are focused on encouraging more speech,” the Twitter CEO told senators on Tuesday. It’s not enough to kick conservatives off of Twitter. Narrative control is the goal. Any alternative, any other avenue of ‘freer’ speech, must be shut down. The polls from the major networks and universities promised a blue wave. President Trump was down by at least 10 points nationally, and by nearly that much or more in the major swing states. The few pollsters, including Trafalgar, who got 2016 and 2018 right and called 2020 a close race, were widely ridiculed.Nate Silver, a leftwing poll analyst, was chief among the critics. Silver gave former Vice President Joe Biden a nearly 70 percent chance of winning Florida.Immediately on Election Day, turnout looked good for the GOP. Trump won Florida decisively and by 8:30 p.m. Central Time, and made huge inroads in urban areas. While Hillary Clinton won Miami-Dade County by 30 points in 2016, the 2020 Trump ticket was down only single digits in the county.That’s because Trump made significant gains among nonwhite Americans, and according to exit polls had the second-highest nonwhite share of the vote of any Republican since 1976. Cuban Americans are a big reason for Trump decisively winning Florida, but Trump’s gains with minority voters are a nationwide trend. The flipside was lower black and Hispanic turnout for Democrats—except for several major Democratic cities in contested swing states.In other words, a significant margin of minority voters who didn’t defect to Trump decided not to vote. Indeed, a Bloomberg article days before the election cited anonymous Biden officials who said the campaign was worried about black and Hispanic turnout due to a lack of a ground game in these traditionally Democratic strongholds. But the warnings had gone unheeded.Instead, the campaign hoped to make up these lost minority votes with gains in the suburbs, particularly among white women. In the end, Trump gained among white women compared to 2016, and only appeared to marginally lose votes from white men—many of which may have been upper-class suburban white men.On election night, Trump’s decisive win in Florida was a bellwether to punters in the betting markets. The Trump campaign also seemed to outperform Election Day voting in states like Michigan and Pennsylvania, especially given the turnout seen in Florida. A shy Trump vote did exist, especially in the suburbs among women, and the GOP was morphing into a working-class, increasingly multiracial party. Betting odds swung in Trump’s favor, peaking at around 85 percent.That’s when things went south for the Trump campaign. In a yet unexplained move, states including Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin stopped releasing vote counts on election night. Fact-checkers have noted that these states didn’t stop counting—fair enough—but not why they stopped releasing the results of their counting.Come 4 a.m. the next morning, huge amounts of fresh Biden votes were reported. Trump’s betting odds plummeted, and days later the media declared Biden to be the president-elect.Except 70 percent of Trump voters, who comprise half the country, are convinced of massive election fraud. Yet corporate media has no intention of investigating claims of fraud. Instead, it has pivoted from saying there is “no evidence” of fraud, to saying that not enough evidence exists to overturn the results.Contrary to the hope of Trump supporters, the courts will probably be powerless to sort these issues out. This is an incredibly dangerous moment for the country and may be a pivotal point in the future of America’s democratic republic. Did we just cross the Rubicon?Before all else, we must go to the source of distrust over this election. Whereas Florida finished counting votes on election night, and has a system that knows roughly how many votes are outstanding and will be counted before election night is over, in key states like Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin an unknown number of ballots could come in at the last second. And they did.For that, thank Democrat lawsuits to overturn state voting laws at the last second, using COVID as a pretext. For those who doubt that the suits were nakedly political, note that they looked like a wish list based on a bill Democrat House Speaker Nancy Pelosi authored in 2019 to accomplish nationwide mail-in voting.Many of the suits were quarterbacked by former Hillary Clinton campaign attorney Marc Elias, who was involved in manufacturing Russiagate’s Christopher Steele “dossier.” Like most things rotten in this country, particular blame should be placed on the courts that decided bureaucrats could unilaterally rewrite state laws to turn absentee voting into mail-in voting.There was no good reason to remove requirements that absentee ballots arrive before the end of Election Day, nor to allow the fraud-welcoming practice of “ballot-harvesting.” The John Roberts Supreme Court stood idly by and let lower courts rip up longstanding state election law. Democrats and the media complain that the legislatures should have acquiesced and affirmed this judicial tyranny by changing the law to allow ballots to be counted before Election Day. That would have only put the legislature’s seal of approval on a mess that the courts stupidly created.Regardless of the existence or level of fraud in the 2020 election, it is a fact that mail-in balloting opens elections to the likelihood of massive fraud and chaos. First, there’s an easy opportunity for cheating, given the unknown number of ballots that can come in. Because ballots can be accepted after election day, an unscrupulous faction that lags in earlier counting can come up with the votes to make the difference.Second, there’s less accountability for election officials. In a normal election, it is possible to immediately tell how many votes are cast and from where—once the votes are cast, all that’s left is to count the votes, because officials know by ward and precinct how many votes are in and what type have been cast (are the votes early in-person, absentee, or election day in-person?). Not so for mail-in voting.Then, once the counting starts, mail-in voting brings problems of a haphazard chain of custody and reduced controls over voter-eligibility verification. All this is why one can have a recount, but that will only recount the same bad ballots.The obvious problems with mail-in voting are not a rightwing conspiracy. France banned mail-in voting in the 1970s for these very reasons. In a recent New Jersey mail-in election, about 20 percent of the ballots cast were found to be fraudulent. A local New York election this year saw huge delays in processing ballots. A 2012 article in the New York Times warns that regular old absentee voting could screw up the electoral process, let alone allowing ballots to come in after election day.Independent left-leaning journalist Glenn Greenwald writes Georgia had an 80 percent chance to go for Trump on election night, ostensibly because of a good Republican turnout. But so many ballots came in for Biden the next morning that the state ostensibly swung to Biden’s favor, due to major Democratic turnout in the Democratic stronghold of Fulton County.This doesn’t prove fraud, but Greenwald calls this seesaw process in which many areas are counting votes nearly a week after the election a “disgrace.” “Distrust in U.S. outcomes [under such a system] is dangerous but rational,” writes Greenwald.The media, Democrats, and many establishment Republicans have reflexively repeated that “no evidence” of fraud existed. Yet evidence does exist. The stories coming out of major vote-counting centers are shocking, and only add to the distrust. Dozens upon dozens of witnesses have signed affidavits attesting wrongdoing or highly inappropriate behavior from officials who are supposed to be impartial.Detroit poll challengers have signed affidavits, under penalty of perjury, that they saw election workers counting ballots for non-eligible voters, and the double counting of voters. These persons say they were harassed constantly, and that election workers and Democratic operatives would get in their faces and start screaming if they raised a concern.Some “election workers” appeared to be AFL-CIO activists. If concerns were raised, GOP poll challengers said, they were ushered from the room by the police and the entire room would cheer. They say election workers’ goal was to get as many GOP poll challengers as possible kicked out of that room.Poll challengers also allege that they were pushed out of the room when the military ballots came in. Workers were sent to lunch; Democrats ate inside the building and the Republicans ate outside the area where votes were being counted, and the doors were locked so Republicans couldn’t get back in.Irregularities alleged by these challengers aside from counting ineligible voters include ballots being dropped off by random vehicles, including a Mercedes Benz and a Ferrari, or arriving after the cutoff period. A sworn affidavit claims ballots were being “fraudulently and manually entered” when the person had no information and the birthdate was simply put as “1/1/1900.” Another Detroit GOP poll challenger says she witnessed names on ballots not coming up in the system but being counted nonetheless. When she raised concerns, she says she was kicked out.Sworn affidavits by several U.S. Postal Service employees, in at least Pennsylvania and Michigan, along with a city employee from Detroit, alleged they were asked to backdate ballots (make ballots appear as if they were sent on election day) by their superiors. It was later revealed that federal agents threatened one of these whistleblowers, in an effort to get him to recant his story. A Clark County Nevada elections department employee says that his coworkers fabricated proof of residence data to allow ineligible voters.In Philadelphia, GOP poll challengers had to sue to be allowed to observe what election workers were doing. Democratic state officials counter-sued to stop the access. While GOP poll challengers were moved forward in the room, the vote counters were moved further away, a mockery of state law that allows oversight of this process.Photos of Philly vote counters show several women wearing Biden masks. A Trump campaign lawsuit has a sworn affidavit from a person who says he or she saw USB drives being delivered to the back of the room where voting machines were housed, and where observers were restricted.Meanwhile, the Georgia GOP state party chair claims Fulton County election officials told his observers to go home on election night because they were closing up, but then continued to count ballots “in secret.” In Wisconsin, election clerks allegedly altered “thousands” of absentee ballots to make them eligible.Add to this multiple videos of what appears to be poll workers throwing away Trump ballots, and at least a handful of examples of dead persons voting. A conservative pollster, Richard Baris, claims to have found evidence of 10,000 deceased persons voting in Michigan. Others also claimed to have found thousands of dead voters in that state.Meanwhile, Pennsylvania far exceeded its record for 90-year-olds registering to vote. In Nevada, multiple witnesses signed sworn affidavits that they saw a “Biden-Harris” van filling out loads of ballots.Yes, Republicans have at least anecdotal evidence of fraud, although in one sense the media is right: these anecdotes are not evidence enough to overturn the election. That’s because there’s no way to quantify any of this evidence into an actual number of bad votes, even assuming all these claims are well-founded.There’s more than anecdotal evidence, however. Observers and experts pointed out plenty of statistical anomalies. Some may turn out to be innocuous, or easily explainable. Others have been less well-explained.First, Republicans took issue with the massive vote dumps for Biden that occurred overnight, in which Biden was getting nearly 100 percent of the vote. One of these was attributed to an extra zero and human error.Silver tweeted that around 27,000 votes out of Philadelphia went “all for Biden.” In the face of obvious wonderment of how Biden could get 100 percent of such a large share of votes, Silver was quick to claim that election officials “unintentionally enter vote updates one candidate at a time, rather than entering all candidates together.” Maybe, but when votes stop getting reported and reporting starts coming in early in the morning with nearly 100 percent of votes coming in for Biden that justifiably raised eyebrows.On a graph, these vote dumps in Michigan, Wisconsin, Georgia, and Pennsylvania resulted in Biden quickly jumping above Trump, and the odds of a Trump win plummeting. Michigan added almost 150,000 votes in one instance, all of which were for Biden except for about 6,000.On election night, Trump led in Pennsylvania by almost 800,000 votes. The next morning, Trump’s lead shrunk to less than 100,000. Later, ballots found, including those apparently lingering with the U.S. Postal Service, supposedly put Biden over the edge.Biden’s advantage in mail-in voting was to be expected, but the magnitude of the spikes for Biden in these select states is worth scrutiny. According to ballot requests across the country, GOP voters voted by mail too, just not with the same intensity as Democratic voters.But while Trump received a reasonable share of the mail-in or absentee votes in places like Ohio, Biden received an unbelievable amount of the mail-in share in Pennsylvania and Michigan. Biden’s Pennsylvania mail-in total, excluding about 90,000 mail-in votes from libertarians and those with no party affiliation, equates to winning all the Democratic and Independent mail-in votes, and 9 percent of the GOP mail-in votes.Said differently, Biden is up 60 points in absentee or mail-in ballots in Pennsylvania, and up by almost 40 points in Michigan. That’s not Biden receiving 60 percent of mail-in votes in Pennsylvania. That’s Biden receiving 80 percent of the mail-in vote. Comparably, Biden was only up single digits in absentee voting in most other battleground states. Biden’s mail-in advantage was 15 points in Ohio and 5 points in Minnesota.There’s no reason to think Pennsylvania and Michigan should be outliers to national mail-in voting trends. Despite several comments by the president, the Trump campaign ground game in these states encouraged mail-in voting. In Michigan and Wisconsin, according to NBC News, Republicans actually led Democrats in mail-in ballots requested and returned. Yet the vast majority of the ballots that were counted after election day in these states were for Biden.No, this Biden surge in cities wasn’t driven by the suburbs abandoning Trump—Trump didn’t lose the suburbs any more than he lost them in 2016, and losses there were more than replaced by gains in working-class areas. These Biden votes were entirely driven by massive turnout in select Democratic strongholds in swing states. As mentioned before, this turnout was not consistent across the country. In parts of these cities, there was more turnout than registered voters.Biden only had a net gain of 4,000 votes compared to Hillary Clinton in 2016 in Cuyahoga County (Cleveland), Ohio. Yet Biden had a net gain of almost 70,000 in Wayne County (Detroit), Michigan. In Minneapolis, Democrats bragged of 88 percent turnout—extremely high relative to the rest of the country and the state.Biden also outperformed past Democrats in places like Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, where the population is declining. Barack Obama received 233,000 votes in the county in 2012, while Biden received 313,000 votes. In Georgia, a handful of counties had massively higher margins in terms of Biden votes compared to what Hillary Clinton received in 2016—totaling a net gain of more than 200,000 votes.It was alleged by some conservatives that Wisconsin had an unreal amount of statewide turnout. That isn’t the case, but Milwaukee County did have sky-high turnout. In Milwaukee, Biden received more votes than Obama did in 2008, even though the population has declined by around 10 percent since that time. Milwaukee “updated” voting data for its wards after a newspaper pointed out that seven wards had more voters than registered voters, and showing turnout well above 100 percent.Another oddity was the large number of Biden-only ballots with no votes down-ballot in these swing states, where courts had canned existing election law (including Georgia). For example, the difference between Trump and the GOP Senate candidates in Georgia was around 1,000 votes. But Biden received nearly 100,000 more votes than the Democratic Senate candidates. Some of these were split tickets, but the numbers suggest a huge amount of Biden-only ballots.In Michigan, Trump received 7,000 more votes than the GOP Senate candidate. But Biden received 70,000 more votes than the Democratic Senate candidate. Apparently, 450,000 ballots in swing states had only a mark for Biden with no down-ballot votes. This amounts to a massive increase in ballots cast for only the presidential candidate in these states relative to history, and ballots like this were overwhelmingly of the mail-in variety.Anti-Trump establishmentarians claimed everything was attributed to ticket splitting—surely a projection of their views onto the people of Middle America. But ticket splitting was normal, minimal, and went both ways. In fact, this year ticket-splitting nearly hit a historic low. If anything, Trump outperformed the GOP senatorial candidates in states like Michigan and Arizona. Either way, ticket splitting doesn’t explain all the votes for Biden with no down-ballot votes.Another headscratcher is that, in what was supposed to be a blue-wave election, Democrats beat no Republican incumbents. They also lost around 10 seats (possibly more), and all but one of the nearly 30 races considered competitive.Why does this matter for the presidential election? The only place Democrats were turning out to vote was in Democrat-run cities in swing states where election laws were thrown out. Again, contrary to the narrative from some establishment types, this wasn’t Republicans outperforming Trump. In the House Democratic campaign committee’s own panicked words, House Republicans were buoyed by Trump.Republicans are more or less tied with Democrats in the national House popular vote. Trump had at least 1.5 million more votes than House Republicans, while Biden had 5.5 million more votes than House Democrats.Other statistical anomalies have been noticed. In Milwaukee, the number of ballots that were reported in a single batch was highly correlated with Biden receiving the vast majority of the votes—meaning, larger reports of ballots skewed heavily for Biden over smaller reports. This doesn’t prove anything nefarious, but it is an oddity nonetheless.Biden votes appeared to surge later in areas of Milwaukee where Biden was not performing well. Although this could simply be due to unaccounted-for votes coming in, the phenomenon appears concentrated among wards where Democrats were underperforming, not where Democratic voters were most prevalent.Ballots in Pennsylvania are also alleged to have arrived before they were sent, arrived the same day, or arrived just one day after being mailed out right before Election Day. A data analyst calls these instances of “fast traveling” ballots suspicious. The share of these fast-traveling ballots as a percent of overall mail-in ballots was incredibly high in Pennsylvania, totaling up to 100,000 ballots in a race with a margin of much less.Most came from Lehigh County and Philadelphia. Ballots defined as suspicious were much more likely to be requested via mail instead of online. The data analyst calls it odd that the quick turnaround time would depend on how ballots were requested (mail requests somehow got done in a day, compared to online requests, which were more normal).Late-arriving ballots were apparently a huge percent of the votes cast in several Pennsylvania counties. In general, these late-arriving ballots reduce confidence in the election system, fraud or no fraud.There were still other things to set GOP voters’ minds ablaze. Hilariously, Google searches for “election fraud punishment” spiked in Arizona, Michigan, and Pennsylvania several days prior to the election.Aside from anecdotal evidence of deceased voters, some alleged many thousands of deceased voters—a claim that has yet to be unproven. Former Democrat governor of Illinois, Rod Blagojevich, who was jailed for trying to sell Barack Obama’s Senate seat, confirmed conservatives’ suspicions even more. “In big cities where they control the political apparatus and they control the apparatus that counts the votes, and they control the polling places and the ones who count the votes, it’s widespread and it’s deep,” Blagojevich said.Still other examples appear to have been false alarms. One picture showed voters with the birthdate listed as “1/1/1900.” While some poll workers are alleged to have improperly entered this date, and other birthdates have been found that can’t possibly be correct, some voters who were subject to spousal abuse or have other reasons for privacy have their birthdates entered as such. In another example, a viral video showed a poll worker filling out ballot after ballot—yet the election authority says that this is a regular part of the process, and the pollworker is evidently duplicating “damaged” ballots.The spookiest thing thrown about in conservative circles involves allegations that Dominion, voting hardware and software used in a vast number of states and in all the swing states, changed vote tallies from Trump to Biden, or deleted Trump votes. What is certainly true is there were several Dominion-related errors, all of which took votes from Trump and gave them to Biden.Votes were switched in Michigan on at least two separate instances. Dominion claims this was due to user error, but the Michigan GOP has called for a statewide investigation. Even if this was user error, it isn’t comforting that these errors could be so easily made using multi-million-dollar electronic voting machines.The New York Times is quick to point out that every confirmed error has been explained. But Republicans aren’t satisfied with the explanations when all the errors went against Trump, and speculate there could be many yet to be discovered. That’s because when votes were switched, these errors were only identified by authorities carefully tracking the issue—there was no clear-cut mechanism to flag this problem, which means it could be magnified across the country.We also know that Dominion caused Georgia election-day voters to be initially turned away because of a glitch, which occurred in two Trump-leaning counties. A Georgia official said that Dominion “uploaded something last night, which is not normal, and it caused a glitch.”A poll watcher in Georgia alleges that he or she saw a “suspicious [and yet unexplained] shift in votes while monitoring the interim election results on the Georgia secretary of state website.” There were also problems with Arizona voting machines on Election Day. Arizona’s secretary of state is refusing to investigate issues there, and conservatives were quick to point out that she had previously posted about Trump’s “base” being “neo-Nazis.”Dominion has ties to prominent Democrats, too, adding to suspicions. This includes an overwhelming amount of donations going to Democrats, and a Dominion employee in charge of vote security participating in Antifa calls.Conservative blogs have alleged that thousands of votes were switched in Wisconsin, enough to give the state to Trump if true. Another blogger alleges that millions of votes were switched by Dominion, and this claim was tweeted by President Trump on Nov. 12.The president’s lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, is now saying that he has an affidavit from a Dominion worker in Michigan that 100,000 ballots for Biden were brought in the back door so they could “catch up with Trump.” Prominent Republican lawyer Sidney Powell claims Dominion was hacked, and others noticed a subtraction of vote totals in the live data from Virginia.A data scientist claims there is a linear pattern of a declining Trump margin in more heavily Republican areas—which essentially steals votes from red areas and reduces Trump’s ability to run up the score there—in many key swing states.These claims are fanciful, to put it nicely, but they deserve scrutiny and investigation. Dominion systems, at the very least, do appear to be prone to hacking. A federal judge and several senators, all Democrats, have criticized Dominion for security problems in the past. Texas decided not to use Dominion because of security issues.Some allege that corruption was involved in granting massive contracts to Dominion in states like Georgia. Dominion might be completely unproblematic, but it is used in nearly 30 states, was used in all of the swing states, and should be scrutinized.Four years ago, Republican voters would have accepted the current election results. That was before the Trump campaign was spied on, and a constant coup was underway to remove Trump from the presidency. That was before America saw massive riots and looting, resulting in countless injured and dead cops and citizens, while the corporate media ran cover for the rioters and looters.Maybe Trump’s voters deserve to be skeptical about the outcome of this election. Silver and the other mainstream pollsters didn’t just promise that Trump and Republicans would be defeated soundly, they ridiculed those who said it would be a tight race. Trump’s supporters were again right to doubt the polls.The court-won destructions of state election law smacked Republicans as nakedly political. Nobody seriously believes that allowing mailed ballots to come in after the election has anything to do with actually protecting people from the pandemic, especially when the same officials applauding mail-in balloting have selectively applied coronavirus restrictions to reward their friends and punish their political enemies.Democrats have compared Trump to Adolf Hitler and have widely called his supporters white supremacists and fascists. If they believe half the things they are saying about Trump or his supporters, why wouldn’t massive vote fraud be justified and even moral?The same people who ranted about Russia hacking the 2016 election—to the point where almost 70 percent of Democrats falsely believed that Russia had hacked and changed vote totals—tell Trump’s base that it is dangerous and unpatriotic to doubt the results of this election. Russia, via a so-called troll farm, spent less than $100,000 on social media advertising before the 2016 election, but that didn’t stop House Democrats and many Senate Republicans from treating this spending like it was the biggest problem this country faced. The same people who think less than $100,000 of Russian social media advertising could sway an election say there is no way the election could be swayed by fraud.The censorship of any post questioning any part of the election on social media and the denial and dismissal of obvious signs of fraud only add fuel to the fire. These fly in the face of common sense. Consider an article from the BBC in September 2016, about vote rigging in Africa. The article says that classic signs of fraud include “high turnout in specific areas,” and “delay in announcing results.” Note that states like Florida had high turnout, but it wasn’t hugely concentrated to certain areas and ballots were counted instantly.After the election the rejection rate of mail-in (absentee) ballots may have plummeted in the key swing states, meaning officials there don’t appear to have checked ballot validity, even though millions more mail-in ballots were cast in 2020. Georgia is recounting votes, but not checking absentee ballot signatures. And Pennsylvania officials appear to have destroyed absentee ballot envelopes—in violation of state law—which are necessary to determine the validity of votes in an audit.Nothing here proves election fraud changed 10,000 votes or 1,000,000 votes, and that’s partly the point.  It isn’t possible to know what would have happened without a major recanvassing and audits. Even then, unlawful votes are extremely hard to undo. People asking for definitive proof of fraud that would result in a specific total of fraudulent votes are asking for the impossible. The election is supposed to be secure from the get-go.Trump’s chances in the courts look slim, fraud or no fraud. The legal system is probably not equipped to handle these matters, given the alleged scale and egregiousness. Courts can’t go through ballot by ballot and figure this out. Instead, they would apply brightline rules, such as tossing out ballots in Pennsylvania that came in after a certain date.But since Pennsylvania officials failed to segregate these ballots, and corrupt officials violated the law and threw out the ballot envelopes, are the courts really ready to invalidate whole categories of votes from a swing state? The courts already failed the country by allowing perfectly decent election laws to be ignored.Consider too that if Trump does pull off a shocking victory, America will see riots and violence in the streets unlike anything seen before. According to PredictIt, this has at least a one in ten chance of happening.But if Trump loses his court challenges and recounts, his supporters aren’t going to forget about this. People are angry unlike anything this author has seen before. The Jeffrey Epstein affair, the FBI corruption, and the riots have completely eroded trust in basic institutions, especially on the right.If the fraud alleged did occur, it was pre-planned, industrialized, and brazen. This isn’t 1960, where John F. Kennedy received more votes in Cook County than the number of people living there. It isn’t 2000, where a legal battle is ensuing over one state’s balloting issues.This is an allegation that there was massive fraud, on a scale never seen before—and the allegation comes from about 50 million Americans. The allegation is plausible because the establishment denying it has hated Trump and his supporters from the get-go. Trump supporters deserve to be paranoid—they have been neither accepted nor understood.The Republican Party may not like that its voters believe this, but at this point they are riding a tiger. Trump won’t go away, either. Yes, Trump made plenty of mistakes—he tried too hard to work with an establishment that viewed him as an existential threat, and realized only too late that it would never accept him—and in some ways governed too much like a traditional Republican. But Trump is now inseparably tied to the Republican base, largely because of how the establishment has brutalized him and his supporters.Picture inauguration day: Biden is being sworn in, but Trump isn’t in D.C. Instead, he’s holding a massive rally in the Midwest. Republican Party officials and most politicians (privately at least) will screech at this, but at this point they have no control. They are along for the ride.Note that these things are happening when the economy is relatively good for most Americans, despite the coronavirus pandemic. Imagine what happens if this is no longer the case. Quite obviously, this is not a healthy democratic republic. It will be incredibly hard to deescalate from here, and that should terrify Americans.Let’s put this even more bluntly. After the election, Tucker Carlson had a segment on how Republicans dodged a bullet in 2020 by holding the Senate. But with mail-in balloting, how sure can Republicans be that they will hold the two seats in Georgia?Many establishment Republicans and party insiders are happy to move on from Trump and have touted the good night other Republican candidates had. The base isn’t going to move on from Trump, could care less about Republican senators, and wonders if the country will have a fair election again.If mail-in ballots go away next time, all this worry was for nothing. But Democrats are unlikely to give up mail-in balloting given the power it provides. If cheating did occur, and it is unaddressed, it will certainly happen again. Maybe Republican areas have 120 percent turnout next election. See how this works?Overall, people feel like America has been sliding for decades, and indeed the American working class has been sliding for decades. If people begin to feel like elections no longer matter, the only avenue to settle differences is through force and violence. The far-left in this country has already skipped belief in the electoral system and reached this conclusion. How else does a divided people settle disputes without the ballot box?The phrase “crossing the Rubicon” refers to the moment Julius Caesar crossed the Rubicon River, which precipitated the Roman Civil War and the end of the Roman Republic. It’s like saying “the point of no return.” People can laugh at what this is implying, but America is reaching a dangerous point if the people—on both sides—no longer trust elections.Only a few things can walk us back from the ledge. First, Democrats need to drop the push for mail-in balloting. The fear, however, is that Democrats won’t be able to resist the advantage this gives them. Trump not leaving politics will provide moral ammo, in Democrats’ minds, for not taking the high road. Plus, even when Trump does get too old for politics, the movement he started isn’t going away.Next, Biden should be calling for a full auditing of the election, especially in the swing states, if he really wants to bring the country together. This is highly unlikely to happen, however, and Biden’s moves are being closely handled even as D.C. is springing into action in anticipation of the administration change.Republicans in Michigan and Pennsylvania want a full audit before the legislature certifies the results, which is both their right and good for the country. But any audit that results in success for the Trump campaign will result in chaos and violence, given how poorly the media is covering these issues. And Democrats are fighting hard to pressure the swing-state legislatures to certify the results without an audit.No, there won’t be a revote. The small fraud that got Democrats a new congressional election earlier this year can’t happen for a presidential election, given timetables set by the Constitution. No matter what happens, the courts won’t decide this in a way that is acceptable to more than half the country.So this is the massive risk our country faces going into the 2020s: if one side no longer agrees to play by the rules of a game, the game is over. It appears that with Trump as an excuse, the left believes the rules of the game no longer apply. The political right is approaching the point where they feel the same way.Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri grilled Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg over the big tech company’s alleged coordination efforts with other Silicon Valley companies like Twitter and Google to censor users and content.During a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing Tuesday on big tech social media content moderation, Hawley revealed that a former Facebook employee contacted his office about an internal tool Facebook employees use to to coordinate and share information with other big tech platforms.Hawley compared this coordination between the biggest tech giants to “robber barons” of  America’s Gilded Age. “In the 19th century, the heads of the big corporations, the robber barons got together. They set rates and determined how to control record flow and competition,” Hawley said. “I’ll be darned if we’re not back there again except this time, you’re the robber barons, your companies are the most powerful companies in the world.”Hawley revealed that the tool, known as “Tasks,” allows Facebook’s “censorship teams” to debate and review certain content such as users, links, and hashtags.“As I understand it, Facebook censorship teams communicate with their counterparts at Twitter and Google and then enter those companies’ suggestions for censorship onto the task platform so that Facebook can then follow up with them and effectively coordinate their censorship efforts,” Hawley said.“Mr. Zuckerberg, let me just ask you directly, under oath now, does Facebook coordinate its content moderation policies in any way with Google or Twitter?”Whistleblower says @Twitter and @Google routinely suggest censorship topics – hashtags, individuals, websites, many of them conservative – and @Facebook logs them for follow-up on Tasks. But Zuck REFUSES under oath to turn over list of @Twitter or @Google mentions on Tasks— Josh Hawley (@HawleyMO) November 17, 2020Zuckerberg admitted that it would “probably be pretty normal for people to talk to their peers in the industry” but that he wasn’t aware of any specific instances, and that would be different from “coordinating our policies and responses in specific instances.”“I think it’s important to be very clear that is distinct from the content and moderation policies that we or the other companies have, where once we share intelligence or signals between the companies, each company makes its own assessment of the right way to address and deal with that information,” Zuckerberg said.When Hawley asked Zuckerberg for a list of “every mention of Google or Twitter from the task platform to this committee,” Zuckerberg skirted the question, refusing to provide a direct answer.“Why don’t you commit while I’ve got you here under oath. It’s so much better to do this under oath,” Hawley said“Senator, respectfully, without having looked into this, I’m not aware of any sensitivity that might exist around that so, I don’t think it would be wise for me to commit to that right now,” Zuckerberg replied.“You won’t commit to do it here. We could, of course, subpoena this information, but I’d much more want to get it voluntarily from you,” Hawley replied. “Let everybody take note that Mr. Zuckerberg has repeatedly refused to provide information that he knows that he has.”Mark Zuckerberg under oath to me today: I don’t know, I can’t recall, I don’t remember, I’ll follow up later, let me get back to you— Josh Hawley (@HawleyMO) November 17, 2020Hawley also noted during his time questioning the big tech CEOs that Facebook employs an internal tool called Centra used to monitor users without their knowledge. According to Hawley, the software allows Facebook to see the pages users visit, their linked accounts, and other personal data.Zuckerberg denied any knowledge of technology by the name Centra.A @Facebook whistleblower tells me it’s called Centra. Example below. Zuck said he couldn’t recall the name … he’s only the company CEO, after all pic.twitter.com/DLkQ46MiR4— Josh Hawley (@HawleyMO) November 17, 2020“You say you don’t keep a list. Obviously, you have a list, because there are some of us who are regularly censored and called down by your content moderators,” Blackburn said. “Mr. Zuckerberg, let me just ask you directly, under oath now, does Facebook coordinate its content moderation policies in any way with Google or Twitter?” Hawley asked. “You can take a policy position, but you don’t get to pretend you’re a publisher and get a special benefit under Section 230 as a result,” Cruz said.  ‘”All of our policies are focused on encouraging more speech,” the Twitter CEO told senators on Tuesday. It’s not enough to kick conservatives off of Twitter. Narrative control is the goal. Any alternative, any other avenue of ‘freer’ speech, must be shut down. “Biden’s victory returns a recognizable, reassuring figure to the Western throne,” an Atlantic essay claims, “a restoration of the old dynastic order — a figure who will hear Europe’s petitions with respect and grace.” Europe, it appears, banked on Biden, whom it believes will deliver. At least such is the received wisdom.Politico argued the same, saying, “For many European leaders, Biden’s win represented more than just the prayed-for end of Trump’s presidency — it was a welcome shot in the arm for Europe’s battered brand of centrist politics as it battles its own populist demons, a glimmer of hope that the ‘good guys’ can win.” Progressive centrism is apparently back, and Europe is collectively breathing a sigh of relief.The European elite, especially those in the West and North and in charge of the institutions from Brussels to Berlin, were hoping for restoration. Suffering from a mild Electra complex, they hoped the benevolent father figure would “heal” all the “cruelties” of the past four years.Except it cannot be further from the truth, and Europe, as always, is on the verge of learning the wrong lessons from this election result. The idea of a restorationist foreign policy with America at the helm, ruled by a political party committed to globalist liberalism, is so absurd that only a European elite class completely detached from reality can think of it.The idea that the entirety of Europe is jubilant now that the Democrats are ostensibly back in charge will hit two roadblocks soon enough. It is mostly western European elites who prefer a Democratic government. The general population, while having a strong reaction to Trump’s persona, is overall much more ambivalent about American leadership. In fact, as a Pew report suggested a while back, on the ideological right-wing, even in western Europe, Trump’s favorability has increased.The western European leadership class has been a leftist elite for a while. On one hand, it’s been used to a generous American tax-funded security. On the other hand, it has acted like imperial consuls from faraway lands trying to shape the politics of the capital.The situation is different among the European populace, especially among people in eastern and central Europe. Biden’s administration will perhaps increase interference in Belarus to “promote democracy,” thereby preempting a Ukraine-type conflict, while pushing back stalwart traditional conservative allies such as Hungary and Poland. As a result, one can expect a fracturing of EU polity.The European Union is undergoing an intense amount of scrutiny. Even within the liberal western states, France and Austria want a closed EU with better Russian relations, an independent army, and strategic independence, and scrutiny of political Islam and antagonism to Turkey. Germany, afraid of a French hegemony post-Brexit and Trump, desperately wants a restoration of the 1990s. In short, European differences in interests are back once America is retrenched.While nominally committed to European security, Biden will still focus more on Asia. The rise of China foreordains that. His foreign policy, therefore, will neither satisfy the closed EU ideologues, such as France, nor the Atlanticists, such as Germany, while antagonizing the cultivated allies of the last four years, from Britain to eastern and central Europe.The Euro leftists, however, depending on the Democrats for the restoration of a liberal order, refuse to see that American interests will increasingly be inward. To retrench from the Middle East after disastrous wars would naturally mean more conflict in that region and more spheres-of-influence politics between various powers such as Russia and Turkey — but that is also inevitable.America will be foolish to stay in the Middle East, with no long-term major power threats. With a détente between the Gulf Arabs and Israel, the natural balance against Iran is also consolidated. Europe would have to concentrate on its southern flank anyway, with or without Biden; Biden, to his lone credit, was the only man in the entire Obama administration to have opposed the disastrous Libyan war.More importantly, the European leftists, politically tying themselves up with the Democrats, view any country or party or government that prefers hierarchy, law and order, natural law and biology, and judicial conservatism to be automatically illegitimate and borderline fascist. That means Republicans are naturally antagonistic to European liberal states.Given that Europe is fundamentally dependent on American muscle, to antagonize one whole party and ideology is the dumbest possible development since 2016 and will come back to haunt Europe the next time an even more conservative Republican president is in power, one who will have the winning combination of Trump — including social conservatism, strong law and order, and foreign policy retrenchment — minus his personal baggage.After spending 20 years claiming that Al Gore won in 2000, four years claiming that Hillary Clinton won in 2016, and two years claiming that Stacey Abrams is the actual governor of Georgia, leftist media continued to reject basic reality when they unanimously declared that Joe Biden, on his third attempt, is now president-elect of the United States.The facts that the Trump campaign is actively challenging some results, and that recounts are scheduled to occur, or that the media are not endowed with the ultimate authority to erase electoral procedure with their enthusiastic projections, to them are irrelevant details.On the back of this media-endorsed “victory,” Biden took to the stage and delivered what the left are describing as a “call for unity.”Former Vice Pres. Joe Biden calls for unity from both sides, put election rhetoric "behind us" after the election, as ballots continue to be counted across the country."To make progress, we have to stop treating our opponents as enemies." https://t.co/uZLg3wzPs0 #election2020 pic.twitter.com/8zp7gHT3NT— ABC News (@ABC) November 4, 2020On the surface, for an outside listener, this sounds like a wonderful call to come together as Americans. “To listen to one another. To hear each other again, and respect and care for one another.”Kamala Harris, Joe Biden’s running mate and likely replacement, also referred to unity in her speech, describing “Joe” as a “healer, a uniter, a tested and steady hand,” as well as “a man with a big heart, who loves with abandon.”"You chose hope and unity, decency, science and yes, truth. You chose Joe Biden as the next president of the United States of America."Vice president-elect Kamala Harris says Joe Biden is a "healer, a uniter" and "a man with a big heart".Live: https://t.co/Mve6K4CZhA pic.twitter.com/bkml7Z5tqI— SkyNews (@SkyNews) November 8, 2020Nonsense. If we had a class of journalists who were anything other than partisan activists working as a propaganda wing for the Democratic Party, this would be torn apart as the shameless B.S. that it is. However, the media will instead nod, applaud, and even shed a tear as Biden and Harris claim to be as a beacon of hope and unity.However, those of us who were born before Nov. 3 may find this sudden call for “unity” to be somewhere between galling and obscene when we look at the “harsh rhetoric” Biden, Harris, and the legacy media sweep under the rug when it is politically convenient.Biden, the man who said “we have to stop treating our opponents as enemies,” is also the same man who compared Donald Trump to Nazi propagandist Joseph Goebbels just weeks ago. He is the same man who told black Americans that they “ain’t black” if they do not vote for him. He is the same man who has referred to Trump and his supporters as “clowns” and “chumps,” and has routinely threatened people with violence in response to difficult questions.Harris implied that Biden was a racist—and then endorsed him. She implied that Biden was a rapist—and then endorsed him. She told Jacob Blake, a man who allegedly sexually assaulted his girlfriend and was shot by police after resisting arrest and attempting to access a deadly weapon, that she was “proud of him.”Democratic Party leaders have long argued that anyone who supports Trump is a racist, sexist, misogynistic bigot who is in favor of both white supremacy and sexual assault. The Democratic Party’s last presidential candidate referred to conservatives as a “basket of deplorables.” Several Democrats are promoting a “Trump Accountability Project” to maintain a list of those connected with the Trump administration to single them out for public harassment and denial of paid employment.If you believe that Biden and the Democratic Party actually want unity, you’re a fool. The only kind of unity they want is where we bend the knee. They don’t want unity, they want submission.If they think they can spend four years calling me a sexist, a bigot, a Nazi, and get away with it, they’ve got a surprise coming. Don’t forget what they did to you, because the moment their power is threatened, they’ll do it again.Illinois Democratic Gov. J.B. Pritzker dodged questions Monday about his family plans for the upcoming fall holiday.While Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom imposes sweeping restrictions to cancel’s California’s Thanksgiving, state lawmakers are fleeing to Hawaii.The story of former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg is a one of a whole lot of money spent on broken promises, no results, and a bad reputation.Democratic Party leaders have long argued that anyone who supports President Trump is a racist, sexist, misogynistic bigot who is in favor of both white supremacy and sexual assault.Leftist elites in Europe are tying their fate with Democrats, becoming a natural adversary of any future Republican administration. That is a long-term mistake.Illinois Democratic Gov. J.B. Pritzker dodged questions Monday about his family plans for the upcoming holiday, claiming he was unaware of Chicago’s latest stay-home orders.When asked during a press conference whether he’d be in Illinois on Thanksgiving next week, Pritzker left it an open question.“I don’t know what my plans will be, but I’ll certainly be happy to share,” he said.When a reporter followed up on another story about the governor’s wife and family already have gone to Florida, Pritzker dismissed it.“I think you already know we have a place in Florida. So yeah,” said the Illinois governor whose family also reportedly evaded springtime restrictions by hanging out on his equestrian farms in Wisconsin and the Sunshine state.“Actually, I don’t think there was a travel ban, but it was a discouragement,” he told reporters.— Amy Jacobson (@AmyJacobson) November 16, 2020Chicago and the surrounding suburbs went under stricter lockdowns Monday that will persist for the next 30 days, well past Thanksgiving. Residents are being ordered to avoid travel and gatherings with individuals outside their own home.Pritzker himself has asked residents to keep gatherings “small and virtual, maintaining six feet of distance from others and wearing a mask,” indoors or out.“We all need to celebrate a bit differently,” Pritzker said.Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot, who gets her hair done in salons she shut down because she goes on television, was more blunt.“You must cancel the normal Thanksgiving plan,” Lightfoot said last week.Pritzker’s Illinois Department of Public Health also ordered similar recommendations last week requesting residents to stay home except for “essential activities,” though the rules are non-mandatory. Pritzker threatened that a mandatory stay-home order could arrive in the coming days “if things don’t take a turn.”Single-day novel cases reached a new high in Illinois last week reaching more than 15,000 on Friday alone, an 87 percent increase over the prior 14 days. Deaths are also rising, with 191 deaths reported Thursday. Although cases are rising to the highest infection rates seen throughout the entire pandemic, deaths remain far lower on average than its deadliest days in May as shown in the chart from the New York Times coronavirus tracker below illustrating Illinois case and death data.Illinois Democratic Gov. J.B. Pritzker dodged questions Monday about his family plans for the upcoming fall holiday.While Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom imposes sweeping restrictions to cancel’s California’s Thanksgiving, state lawmakers are fleeing to Hawaii.The story of former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg is a one of a whole lot of money spent on broken promises, no results, and a bad reputation.Democratic Party leaders have long argued that anyone who supports President Trump is a racist, sexist, misogynistic bigot who is in favor of both white supremacy and sexual assault.Leftist elites in Europe are tying their fate with Democrats, becoming a natural adversary of any future Republican administration. That is a long-term mistake.Former President Barack Obama has written not one but two memoirs about himself, the second out this week, which I’m calling “Everyone Who Disagrees with Me is Racist, Part II.”His first memoir, “Dreams From My Father,” was a showy substitute for record and experience at the start of his first presidential term; his second memoir is meant as a defense of his two presidential terms, which were repudiated by the election of Donald Trump and the flow of minority voters away from the Democratic Party. Republicans built a big tent these last four years, while Democrats became older and whiter, and Democrats recognize this as a threat to their influence.Former President Barack Obama directly confronts the racist politics of President Donald Trump in his upcoming memoir, bluntly suggesting how he believes his historic 2008 election opened a wave of divisive turmoil that fueled Republicans' obstructionism https://t.co/lU87UfYmI5— CNN (@CNN) November 14, 2020According to Obama, the nation that legitimately elected him as its first black president became racist when they refused to vote for the elderly, white Hillary Clinton. Even though black unemployment is lower under Trump — every demographic saw the same, with wages and benefit increases across the board — everyone who disagrees with Obama does so not because his policies are illogical or his arguments straw man; it’s because everyone else is a bigot.This is coming from a guy who subscribes to the actually racist critical race theory, a nonsensical ideology rooted in Marxism. By embracing this philosophical snake oil, Obama endorses the theories originated by a fat, white, lazy, entitled, notoriously racist antisemite whose own mother wished he would stop complaining about capital and earn some. In a perfect echo of the whiny Karl Marx, Obama declares it’s America that has the problem.Obama seems just as oblivious and out of touch as the rest of the establishment Democrats. When Obama was elected, the nation collectively celebrated its first black president regardless of individuals’ political affiliation. While Americans gave Obama the grace to redeem himself during his first term after he impugned the character of half the nation as bitter clingers, he made it clear that he opposed extending such grace, even reviving the insults in 2015.During his presidency, Obama weaponized the Internal Revenue Service to thwart the free speech of Americans who didn’t share his politics, which led to the IRS settling with various groups and publicly apologizing, something Obama never did. In fact, Obama weaponized as many government agencies as he could to extend his punitive reach beyond its constitutional limits.He used the banking system in Operation Choke Point to snuff out legal businesses he and his party ideologically opposed. He used his disastrous “Fast and Furious” gun-running program, which resulted in the deaths of an Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent and an agent with Border Patrol, to push for gun control (George W. Bush’s similar and short-lived program, Operation Wide Receiver, was about tracing guns, not running them, and it was limited, tracked all guns, resulted in no deaths, and was shut down when it proved to be a failure).Obama also spied on members of the press and tried to charge journalist James Rosen as a “criminal co-conspirator” through the Espionage Act of 1917. According to the Associated Press, “Trump may use extraordinary rhetoric to undermine trust in the press, but Obama arguably went farther — using extraordinary actions to block the flow of information to the public.”The Obama administration used the 1917 Espionage Act with unprecedented vigor, prosecuting more people under that law for leaking sensitive information to the public than all previous administrations combined. Obama’s Justice Department dug into confidential communications between news organizations and their sources as part of that effort.In 2013, the Obama administration obtained the records of 20 Associated Press office phone lines and reporters’ home and cell phones, seizing them without notice, as part of an investigation into the disclosure of information about a foiled al-Qaida terrorist plot. Obama also weaponized government surveillance against his political opponents and sent government agencies to harass private citizens for carrying out civic duties. These are the actions of an anti-bigot?Trump didn’t create the divisive turmoil Obama mentions; Trump was merely the voters’ response to it. The elected are merely reflections of those who elect them. Trump was elected to serve as a walking cudgel against the hurtful and bigoted accusations from Democrats and their Kremlin-like use of state power to control political opponents.Obama smeared good people by falsely charging them with a moral failing to shame them from engaging in legitimate policy disagreements while mustering the weight of the state to smother his opponents. Trump wasn’t just a repudiation of Obama. In many ways, he was revenge.Words have meaning, but this concept died during Obama’s two terms. “Racist” became the anti-intellectual, knee-jerk response favored over articulate rebuttals that required effort and awareness of issues. Before Joe Biden told black Americans that they weren’t authentically black unless they voted Democrat, Obama intimated similarly when he told Latinos that Republicans are the enemy, so they needed to stand with their “friends”:If Latinos sit out the election instead of saying, ‘We’re gonna punish our enemies, and we’re gonna reward our friends who stand with us on issues that are important to us’ — if they don’t see that kind of upsurge in voting in this election — then I think it’s going to be harder. And that’s why I think it’s so important that people focus on voting on Nov. 2.The media fell over themselves rushing to Obama’s aid, and when they weren’t celebrating him as God’s gift to public speaking, they were inventing ways to excuse his speaking “blunders.” Later they would claim that when Trump called specifically fake news the “enemy of the people,” he was really talking about them. Legacy media outlets (save for a few bylines and the AP, which was targeted) did more to defend Obama from himself than to defend the people against Obama’s abusive federal machinations.Obama, Biden, and the Democratic Party reduced the broad electorate to nothing more than rudimentary labels. They created an environment where people and issues are the same thing, robbing humanity from the political discussion, which justified the left’s violent and contemptuous responses to disagreement.This is why Trump was elected. He is just the harbinger of a new and diverse national sentiment growing against the identity politics, cancel culture, and government abuse the last administration used to tear the nation apart.While Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom imposes sweeping restrictions to cancel California’s Thanksgiving, state lawmakers are fleeing to Hawaii.According to Politico on Monday, an estimated 100 people across four states are converging on the shores of Maui for a four-day legislative conference featuring lobbyists and lawmakers brought together by the Independent Voter Project. The gathering will include nearly 20 lawmakers from California and Washington, two states currently ruled by governors declaring war on Thanksgiving.In Washington, Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee banned intermingling between households unless each individual tests negative or undergoes a 14-day quarantine prior.“We have to rethink these holidays,” Inslee said last week.In California, congregations of more than three households are prohibited, and those who do get together must do so outdoors. Just one day after announcing the new restrictions, news broke that Newsom enjoyed a lavish dinner party with a dozen other people from several different households, a gathering that flys in the face of his own restrictions.“I made a bad mistake,” Newsom said after getting caught.When my stepmother had open heart surgery, my dad wasn’t able to visit her in the hospital even though he recently survived covid. Uppity politicians can ball out in Hawaii because we’re second class citizens. https://t.co/9sKOi3Nwuj— Ana Rosa Quintana (@ana_r_quintana) November 17, 2020Now lawmakers from California and Washington will descend on tropical paradise in the Hawaiian islands despite guidelines discouraging such travel after their own states cancelled the fall holiday with little pushback from the state legislatures. According to Politico, conference organizers were also granted special permission from the county to host a group larger than 12 people.Politico reported that the Independent Voter Project’s Chair and Executive Director Dan Howle would not provide the names of those attending but said the conference typically drew moderate Democrats.Illinois Democratic Gov. J.B. Pritzker dodged questions Monday about his family plans for the upcoming fall holiday.While Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom imposes sweeping restrictions to cancel’s California’s Thanksgiving, state lawmakers are fleeing to Hawaii.The story of former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg is a one of a whole lot of money spent on broken promises, no results, and a bad reputation.Democratic Party leaders have long argued that anyone who supports President Trump is a racist, sexist, misogynistic bigot who is in favor of both white supremacy and sexual assault.Leftist elites in Europe are tying their fate with Democrats, becoming a natural adversary of any future Republican administration. That is a long-term mistake.The story of former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg is one of a whole lot of money spent on broken promises, no results, and a bad reputation. Bloomberg’s late entry into the crowded Democratic Party presidential primary last fall was marked with the intrigue of a well-financed and well-known candidate deploying a unique strategy in an unusual race.One of the richest men in the world, who built a financial empire complete with a massive media conglomerate reaching his name to the far corners of the Earth, Bloomberg served three terms as New York City mayor before jumping into presidential politics personally.The Manhattan business mogul dove both feet in as a relatively fresh face whose political reputation beyond the Big Apple could best-described as “The Big Gulp” guy for his ban on large sodas. With a net worth of about $53 billion at the time he launched his campaign and coming from the same background as the incumbent president, Bloomberg was in position to brand himself as richer than Donald Trump, smarter than Donald Trump, more experienced than Donald Trump, and more successful than Donald Trump, while claiming to be a moderate voice in a primary pushing the party left at breakneck speed.“Even though Donald and I are both from New York, the truth is we could not be more different,” Bloomberg said during a campaign stop in Salt Lake City, Utah in February. “In fact, I bill myself as the Un-Trump.”According to a poll from the Morning Consult released one day earlier, voters appeared to agree. Thirty-nine percent of registered voters rated Bloomberg the most successful businessman between President Trump and fellow Democratic rival Tom Steyer, also a billionaire.Bloomberg’s strategy was unconventional. Acknowledging he was likely too late in the game to be competitive in the first primary states, Bloomberg instead flexed his financial muscle to build a nationwide operation to compete in the Super Tuesday contests, in which more than a third of the total delegates would be up for grabs.“It’s much more efficient to go to the big states, to go to the swing states,” Bloomberg explained in February. “The others chose to compete in the first four. And nobody makes them do it, they wanted to do it… Those are old rules.”By pouring millions of dollars into key states to drown out the airwaves, Bloomberg’s massive political operation — complete with more than 2,300 staff paid double what employees made on rival campaigns — served as a true test for whether a businessman with all the money in the world could buy the Oval Office. As the numbers came in on the biggest day of the primary in Marc,h however, Bloomberg’s billion-dollar presidential campaign proved a bad investment.On the debate stage, Bloomberg appeared dismissive and out-of-touch as he suffered attacks from presidential rivals in prime time while opposition research on the campaign trail unearthed bombshell after bombshell, blowing holes in the young but well-oiled machine. The press went after Bloomberg over stop-and-frisk while Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren hammered Bloomberg on alleged misconduct towards women.Presidential campaigns tend to bring a level of scrutiny unrivaled in any other area of public life, and what emerged was likely just the tip of the ice berg had Bloomberg made it through the gauntlet of the primary.When the dust settled on the Wednesday following Super Tuesday, Bloomberg claimed 44 of 1,991 delegates and carried one first-place finish, in American Samoa, despite spending more than $1 billion on the effort. This prompted him to drop out and endorse Joe Biden. Bloomberg ultimately ended the primary with just 59 delegates.Bloomberg’s campaign staff were supposed to be okay. Except they weren’t. People who were paid to tell the country exactly who Bloomberg was found out exactly who Bloomberg was.After being promised by the campaign they would remain on board to help with the businessman’s political ventures beyond the primary to November, whether Bloomberg made it to the fall ballot or not, hundreds of staff were quickly laid off and given their phones and laptops, valued between $1,400 and $1,700, as consolidation prizes they’d still have to pay taxes on.“We sincerely appreciate your commitment and dedication over the past few months!” read an email to employees, reported by the New York Times. “As a token of our appreciation, we are offering you the opportunity to keep your laptop and iPhone.”Some prize for unemployment as the nation shut down over the novel Wuhan coronavirus.Several days later, Bloomberg broke his employment pledge to dozens more, by scrapping plans for an independent organization to support Biden. Instead, Bloomberg sent truckloads of money to the Democratic Party and spent $100 million more to promote the Democratic nominee in several key states where Biden lost by comfortable margins, including Ohio, Texas, and Florida.Bloomberg also poured money into local down-ballot races in Arizona, Texas, and North Carolina, losing every effort.In total, Bloomberg dropped upwards of $1.2 billion on political campaigns this year, almost double the $760 million President Barack Obama spent in the entire 2008 cycle, yet yielded no results but a battered reputation.Former Vice President Joe Biden has yet to condemn the violent attacks on Trump supporters over the weekend in the nation’s capital.While tens of thousands took to the streets of Washington, D.C. for the “Million MAGA March” on Saturday afternoon to show their support for President Trump and call for voting fraud investigations, counter-protests later in the evening turned violent when leftists wearing Antifa and Black Lives Matter garb verbally and physically assaulted Trump supporters in the streets.Brutal assault by a violent armed group who was later arrested for assault and illegal weapon (firearms and concealed knives) charges. pic.twitter.com/vuj2Hn6hj5— Kalen From Scriberr (@FromKalen) November 14, 2020Young couple in DC followed by crowd of BLM-antifa thugs who hit them and throw liquid on them. #MillionMAGAMarch pic.twitter.com/Lqo4evvviK— Andy Ngô (@MrAndyNgo) November 14, 2020A family with children are in tears as they are followed and harassed by antifa. #MillionMAGAMarch pic.twitter.com/Kb8f2sJ1e5— Andy Ngô (@MrAndyNgo) November 14, 2020BLM-antifa rip and steal American flag from woman trying to leave the #MillionMagaMarch. Video by @RichieMcGinniss. pic.twitter.com/Y8nJCkIjth— Andy Ngô (@MrAndyNgo) November 14, 2020While Biden had ample opportunity and time on the Monday following the violence, he did not acknowledge nor condemn the politically-motivated attacks against the Trump supporters, young and old, who were peacefully protesting or simply walking back to their hotels when they were assaulted.Biden interacted with reporters on Monday, but none of their questions touched on the weekend’s incidents and the political intimidation exercised by violent people on the left.Biden took about 12 questions from reporters today. Not one was about the violence against Trump supporters in the streets of DC. No one asked him to condemn it. If Biden supporters were attacked, the only questions to Trump would be about violence, demanding that he condemn it.— Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) November 16, 2020First 5 questions for Biden, 4 focused on Trump. Non-Trump question was about an executive order relieving student debt. Biden occasionally looked at notes during some answers. Reporters stepped up to a microphone in a pre-determined order, they weren’t randomly called upon.— Joe Concha (@JoeConchaTV) November 16, 2020Trump quickly denounced the attacks on Twitter, saying that the onslaughts were committed by “radical left Antifa scum.”“Radical Left ANTIFA SCUM was easily rebuffed today by the big D.C. MAGA Rally crowd, only to return at night, after 99% of the crowd had left, to assault elderly people and families. Police got there, but late. Mayor is not doing her job!” he wrote.Radical Left ANTIFA SCUM was easily rebuffed today by the big D.C. MAGA Rally crowd, only to return at night, after 99% of the crowd had left, to assault elderly people and families. Police got there, but late. Mayor is not doing her job!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 15, 2020Earlier in the election cycle, Democrats and the media heavily criticized Trump for what they claim to be him refusing to denounce white supremacy on the first presidential debate stage.Debate moderator Chris Wallace asked if the president was “willing tonight to condemn white supremacists and militia groups?” Trump immediately replied, “Sure.”While Trump has very early stated his opposition to white supremacy and hate groups that perpetrate it in the past as well as on the debate stage, headlines following the first debate misconstrued the issue and reporters assailed the president and his staff for days with similar questions, insinuating that the administration willingly promotes racism.Despite speaking with the press Monday, Joe Biden remained silent on the political intimidation exercised by violent people on the left.Jews, who make up approximately 1.8 percent of the U.S. population, were 60.2 percent of the anti-religious hate crimes the FBI recorded in 2019.Eyewitnesses testify they saw approximately 40,000 irregular ballots arrive in vehicles with out-of-state plates during an early-morning poll worker shift change Nov. 4. That’s not even the half of it.Despite some Democrats’ high hopes that unity could be achieved once the bad orange man left office, it is clear that the mob is insatiable.Unrest is breaking out in cities again, as two days after the election, ballots have yet to be counted, with several states too close to call and litigation in the works.British music legend Morrissey was dropped from his record label BMG on Monday in a move that no fan of the crooner’s could find the least bit surprising. Long the target of vague claims of -isms, the Mancunian former Smiths front man was dispatched apparently to open up lanes for greater “diversity.”Morrissey’s response was, well it was very Morrissey: “This news is perfectly in keeping with the relentless galvanic horror of 2020.”The horror that Morrissey refers to here is surely not any loss of income or prestige, as he needs neither from BMG after four decades as a cultural icon. Rather, it is a horror for our culture itself. His sin, to put it in his own words, is that he will not change and he will not be nice. Thank God. Quite frankly, there clearly is no room for the last truly British, interesting, talented, and fearless man in Anglo pop music among the Mr. Shanklys of the staid and tired corporate entertainment media.Morrissey’s greatest sin, in the eyes of his detractors, is not anything about Brexit, which he sympathized with, nor nationalism, which he has written about for decades, nor racism, allegations of which all are rather silly. It is and always has been his unabashed love of British and Western culture. James Joyce, Oscar Wilde, World War I, the breadth and depth of English lore and letters are his pallet, and he will not apologize about it. He will not shy away from saying his culture, one he helped to shape, is becoming unrecognizable in the age of cancellations and political correctness.Part of Morrissey’s devotion to things British and Western stems from his upbringing. Not coddled, but working class, the antiheroes of his songs so very often try to cling their way up a social ladder that has rungs missing. His oeuvre is the individual, that very term, that very concept, is now accused of being steeped in white supremacy, but don’t tell that to Morrissey’s legion of Mexican fans. Not unlike Donald Trump, white progressives cannot understand the appeal of Moz because he is so foreign to them, a kid from the ugly houses who only ever says what he really thinks.In the end it is this honesty that makes Morrissey not only a favorite of his most dedicated fans, but also the one absolutely indispensable voice of a Generation X that is tired of everyone else’s nonsense. This past week, in what now looks like a stinging slap in the face of BMG, a re-mastered video of the Master of Mope performing “T. Rex” by Cosmic Dancer with the late David Bowie dropped online.The message to BMG seems clear. These people are absolute legends, and if the record industry prefers a Benetton ad of teenyboppers, then so be it.Morrissey’s last three efforts with BMG were all hit albums, critically praised and loved by his fan base, one which even at his age only grows. When Morrissey tours it is not a nostalgia of shoegaze show, it is a vital artist still singing his life and touching those of others with powerful and new work. That is not going to change.Wherever Morrissey lands, whether with a new label or on a new kind of venture, his work will be embraced, adored, and loved by his fans, because they know that as always, it is honest, forthright, and unafraid.One can only laugh at an attempt to cancel Morrissey; he is after all the bard of the cancelled, the rejected, the people who refuse to keep their mouths shut. That isn’t going to change. But whatever comes next for him, today is a good day to celebrate his catalogue and be grateful for all he has given us.   Music legend Morrissey was dropped by his label on Monday, but his loyal fans know that cannot stop him.Instead of seeing people, their work, and their ideas as unique contributions, the result of intersectionality is a world in which even Lizzo is still reduced to just two of her intersectional labels.A song at the top of the Billboard that promotes a Christian view of marriage is not something I had slated for 2020.Crawford and Lee said they “were told by multiple music promoters that they would pass on the album, even though they have promoted our previous releases.”I watched the VMAs in hopes of a distraction from this absurd timeline we’re living through. Instead, the awards show smacked me over the head with coronavirus and social justice the whole time.Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey told lawmakers on Capitol Hill Tuesday that his company’s censorship policies actually encourage free speech.‘”All of our policies are focused on encouraging more speech,” Dorsey said.Dorsey joined Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee about the big tech companies’ regulation of social media content. The hearing, as described by Chairman Lindsey Graham, is intended to provide the senators with more information to evaluate Section 230, which grants platforms like Twitter and Facebook immunity from liability for third-party content.“I don’t want the government to take over the job of telling America what tweets are legitimate and what are not. I don’t want the government deciding what content to take up and put down. I think we’re all in that category,” Graham said. “But when you have companies that have the power of governments and have far more power than traditional media outlets, something has to give.”Dorsey continued to purport this idea that Twitter promotes free speech by claiming that removing or labeling content considered as abusive or misleading reassures users and allows them to trust Twitter to “express themselves.”“What we saw and what the market told us was that people would not put up with abuse, harassment, and misleading information that would cause off-line harm and they would leave our service because of it,” Dorsey continued. “So, our intention is to create clear policy, clear enforcement that enables people to feel that they can express themselves on our service and ultimately trust it.”While Dorsey claims that moderating content is merely “a business decision” based on what the people want, Twitter actively policies speech on its platform, and oftentimes only in one direction.In October, Twitter locked the New York Post’s account following its publication of a bombshell story indicating Hunter Biden monetized foreign companies’ access to his father, Joe Biden, while the latter was vice president. Facebook also joined Twitter in censoring the New York Post’s bombshell story, informing users they would actively limit the story’s distribution.While Dorsey claims that this was a rash decision by the platform based on its hacked materials policy, Twitter battled with the Post for weeks over unlocking their account and allowing them to tweet again. The account was finally unlocked after Twitter gave in just days before the election.Twitter also censored multiple tweets from President Donald Trump during the election period, preventing users from engaging, commenting, retweeting, or even sharing links to some of the tweets due to a supposed violation of its Civic Integrity Policy. Other users discussing potential election fraud were also censored.“We believe we have a responsibility to protect the integrity of those conversations from interference and manipulation,” the policy states.Sen. Mike Lee noted that Twitter and Facebook’s fact-checking tactics are also in direct contradiction with free speech.“The tag to me sounds a whole lot more like state-run media announcing the party line rather than a neutral company as it purports to be, running an open, online forum,” Lee said.“You say you don’t keep a list. Obviously, you have a list, because there are some of us who are regularly censored and called down by your content moderators,” Blackburn said. “Mr. Zuckerberg, let me just ask you directly, under oath now, does Facebook coordinate its content moderation policies in any way with Google or Twitter?” Hawley asked. “You can take a policy position, but you don’t get to pretend you’re a publisher and get a special benefit under Section 230 as a result,” Cruz said.  ‘”All of our policies are focused on encouraging more speech,” the Twitter CEO told senators on Tuesday. It’s not enough to kick conservatives off of Twitter. Narrative control is the goal. Any alternative, any other avenue of ‘freer’ speech, must be shut down. 