2020 ELECTIONSThe Democratic nominee invoked Abraham Lincoln in imploring Americans to overcome hate and division.Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden holds up his mask as he speaks at Gettysburg National Military Park in Gettysburg, Pa., on Oct. 6, 2020. | AP Photo/Andrew HarnikBy NICK NIEDZWIADEK10/06/2020 06:13 PM EDTUpdated: 10/06/2020 06:27 PM EDTJoe Biden on Tuesday implored Americans to appeal to their higher nature, in a speech he framed as a direct continuation of the legacy of Abraham Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address.The Democratic presidential nominee invoked Lincoln multiple times on the same ground where the 16th president stood more than 150 years ago during the Civil War. He also drew on former President Lyndon B. Johnson and the Black civil rights icons Harriet Tubman and Frederick Douglass in his remarks.Advertisement“Today, once again, we are a house divided,” Biden said, echoing one of Lincoln’s most famous phrases. “But that, my friends, can no longer be. We’re facing too many crises. We have too much work to do. We have too bright a future to have it shipwrecked on the shoals of anger and hate and division.”Biden praised Lincoln as a president who “reimagined America itself,” and one who “believed in the rescue, redemption and rededication of the union.”He also positioned himself as someone who would bear that torch and reunify a fractious nation. Notably, Biden never mentioned his opponent, President Donald Trump by name, in a speech clearly designed to contrast the two candidates.“Too many Americans see our public life not as an arena for mediation of our differences, but rather they see it as an occasion for total, unrelenting partisan warfare,” the former vice president said. “Too many Americans seek not to overcome our divisions, but to deepen them. We must seek not to build walls, but bridges.”He also at times made coded jabs at Trump for the president’s caginess in denouncing hate groups like the Proud Boys — an issue stemming from their debate in Ohio last week.“Hate never goes away,” Biden said. “It only hides, and when it’s given oxygen, when it’s given an opportunity to spread, when it’s treated as normal and acceptable behavior, we’ve opened a door in this country that we must move quickly to close.”Biden’s tone was ominous at points, as he contended that America’s position as an icon of democracy was at stake ahead of an election that could very well not be decided for weeks.“It cannot be that here and now in 2020 we will allow the government of the people, by the people and for the people to perish on this Earth,” Biden said, again echoing the Gettysburg Address. “No, it cannot and it must not.”Biden’s speech came hours after a Monmouth University poll showed the former vice president with a commanding 12-point lead over Trump among registered voters in Pennsylvania.Trump tried to inject himself in the middle of Biden’s speech in an appeal to voters in the state, which he narrowly won in 2016 by roughly 44,000 votes.“How does Biden lead in Pennsylvania Polls when he is against Fracking (JOBS!), 2nd Amendment and Religion?” Trump wrote. “Fake Polls. I will win Pennsylvania!”The poll was conducted after the first presidential debate and ended the same day that Trump announced he had contracted Covid-19. Trump was hospitalized over the weekend and put on an aggressive treatment course, including several experimental medications to fight the virus, but was discharged to the White House on Monday evening.Trump’s infection has sidelined him at a precarious moment, just four weeks out from the election and a world apart from the large rallies and adoring crowds that he draws energy from. In their place the president’s team has fashioned a series of videos, including a slickly produced clip of Trump’s return from Walter Reed Medical Center, to try to reassure the public about his condition and energize his supporters.A White House spokeswoman, Alyssa Farah, on Tuesday teased Tuesday a presidential address later in the day, though she gave few details, such as whether it would be live or prerecorded. Other campaign surrogates said they were holding out hope that Trump would return to the campaign trail in the coming days — even as he is still early in the progression of the disease — and the president himself is itching to get back out.The Biden campaign’s war chest has also been swelling at a rate that Trump’s fundraising machine has failed to keep pace with, creating a cash gap that only compounds further the difficulty of Trump campaigning from Washington. Already the president has faced criticism for using the pomp of the presidency in service of his reelection effort to an extent well beyond that of any of his predecessors — including staging his nomination acceptance speech from the White House lawn in a spectacle punctuated with a fireworks display.Post-debate, Biden has seized on the dichotomy of being able to campaign in earnest — due in part to his team’s obsession about complying with public health guidelines — while Trump is convalescing, including trips to battleground states like Pennsylvania and Michigan, and visiting key areas like Miami on Monday to bolster local Democratic enthusiasm in the area.Biden also landed a nationally televised town hall before a friendly audience on Monday night, the type of so-called earned media that Trump feasted on in 2016 when his rallies generated wall-to-wall coverage but that he cannot currently partake in. The president lashed out on Tuesday at NBC, which hosted the event, calling it an “absolute ‘Joke’” on his Twitter account.“What a disgrace to our Country that FREE public airwaves can be used that way,” Trump wrote. “All SOFTBALLS. A big FIX. Time should be paid by the corrupt DNC!”© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy Policy2020 ELECTIONSThe former veep has a healthy lead over Donald Trump in a handful of recent high-quality polls.Democratic presidential candidate and former Vice President Joe Biden arrives at New Castle Airport on Oct. 6 after holding campaign events in Miami. | AP Photo/Andrew HarnikBy QUINT FORGEY and HOLLY OTTERBEIN10/06/2020 11:00 AM EDTUpdated: 10/06/2020 01:49 PM EDTPHILADELPHIA — With 28 days till the election, Pennsylvania is looking further and further out of reach for President Donald Trump.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden is ahead by 12 percentage points among registered voters here, according to a new survey of the critical battleground state.AdvertisementA Monmouth University poll published Tuesday reports that a majority of Pennsylvania registered voters, 54 percent, back Biden, while 42 percent prefer President Donald Trump. Among likely voters, Biden beats Trump by 8 to 11 percentage points, depending on voter turnout.The survey is one of several high-quality polls in recent weeks that have given Biden a healthy lead in Pennsylvania — a bad sign for Trump, especially since it is widely seen as the tipping-point state in the Electoral College.“Everyone should be very skeptical of any single poll result, even the best poll. But there are just an awful lot of polls that are telling pretty much the same story,” said J.J. Balaban, a Pennsylvania-based Democratic strategist. “The story is that Trump has failed to define Biden as unacceptable in the state of Pennsylvania. He has not grown his support, and he is deeply unpopular in the largest media market in the state.”Biden is powered by a foothold in the state’s top 10 swing counties from 2016, which span from the Philadelphia suburbs to northwestern Pennsylvania. He has also grown his margins among voters of color and is virtually tied with Trump among white voters. The former vice president also benefits from the fact that voters trust him to manage the coronavirus pandemic over Trump by a striking 20 points.The double-digit edge for Biden in the Monmouth survey comes after last month’s version of the same poll showed him with an advantage of just 4 percentage points over Trump among Pennsylvania voters, 49-45 percent.ELECTIONSBY QUINT FORGEYA New York Times/Siena poll released this week found Biden with a lead of 49-42, while a CBS News/YouGov survey put Biden in first 51-44. Recent polls by FOX News and ABC News/Washington Post have painted a similar picture.The spate of good news for Biden has given him a boost in public polling averages in the state. According to a RealClearPolitics average of Pennsylvania surveys conducted from Sept. 24-Oct. 5, Biden is 6.5 percentage points ahead of Trump.That’s a shift from early September, when Biden led Trump by only 3.2 points in Pennsylvania in polling averages over Labor Day weekend — down from a high of about 8 points in July. Instead of tightening as it did then, the race now appears to be shifting further in Biden’s direction in public surveys.Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute, said Biden has benefited from two trends in recent weeks.“The key here is swing voters in places that were pretty close four years ago. What we’re seeing is that Biden is picking up among a group of voters that either sat out in 2016 or really are just not tied to a strong partisan identity. He’s got some momentum there with them. They’re looking at pocketbook issues,” he said. “[That’s] combined with what appears to be a solidifying of the Democratic base, particularly African American voters.”The Monmouth poll also discovered that the race essentially remained static in the days before and after Trump revealed that he tested positive for the coronavirus.Trump’s top allies in Pennsylvania dismissed the latest polls, pointing to their record in 2016, when then-Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton led in almost every survey in the state.“The polls are just so wrong, and they’re never going to get them right because they don’t know why they got them wrong in the first place,” said former Rep. Lou Barletta, an early supporter of Trump’s in 2016.Many Democratic elected officials and strategists in the state are also reluctant to believe that Biden is ahead by double digits after 2016. They largely see Biden as currently winning, but by a smaller margin.Contrary to public polls, some private surveys taken before Trump’s Covid-19 diagnosis and the first debate have shown the race becoming closer in Pennsylvania, though Biden is still leading, according to Democrats familiar with the polls.Trump won Pennsylvania by less than 1 percentage point in 2016, an upset victory over Clinton. His ability to flip that state, as well as the two Midwestern battlegrounds of Michigan and Wisconsin, enabled him to securing his Electoral College success.But Biden, a native of Scranton, Pa., has made inroads with the state’s suburbanites and seniors who voted for Trump four years ago.The Monmouth University poll was conducted Sept. 30-Oct. 4, surveying 500 Pennsylvania voters. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 4.4 percentage points.Trump's doctor released a flimsy update on his health, while the president spread dubious information about the coronavirus — a virus that has infected more than 7.4 million Americans and killed nearly 210,000.© 2020 POLITICO LLC2020 ELECTIONSOutside groups say Trump would never take down attack ads if the roles were reversed.President Donald Trump, pictured Monday walking out of Walter Reed National Military Medical Center after being treated for Covid-19, faces a barrage of negative ads from pro-Biden Super PACs. | Evan Vucci/AP PhotoBy HOLLY OTTERBEIN and ZACH MONTELLARO10/06/2020 06:46 PM EDTJoe Biden’s campaign swore off negative advertising the day President Donald Trump announced that he tested positive for Covid-19.Democratic and anti-Trump outside groups are taking a different road: Convinced that Trump would never make the same commitment if the roles were reversed, they’re breaking with Biden and continuing to launch attack ads.AdvertisementPriorities USA, the super PAC that Biden’s team has signaled it prefers, aired spots over the weekend that blasted Trump for downplaying the coronavirus pandemic and lying “more than 20,000 times as president.” American Bridge 21st Century and Acronym said they’re not stopping their critical ads either.The Lincoln Project, an independent expenditure group created by never-Trump Republicans, is also full steam ahead.The hardball approach to the president as he recovers gives Biden air cover as he pulls back on negative spots, enabling him to project empathy and a reverence for norms. At the same time, it allows his supporters — who have a different calculus — to continue their no-holds-barred ad strategy against Trump. The president’s team is already seeking to leverage his battle with the coronavirus for political advantage.“Over the course of the weekend, it became very clear that Trump wasn't going to change his behavior and was going to continue to put people at risk,” said Josh Schwerin, the communications director for Priorities USA. “It became quickly apparent that there was no reason for us to change course.”Even before Trump left the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center on Monday, some political operatives at outside groups said the Biden campaign should also dispense with the civility and fire away at the president. After all, they said, Trump is still whacking Biden with negative ads.“They’ve continued to attack Joe Biden on social media, on paid media, on digital advertising, using all the mechanisms of their campaign,” said Rick Wilson, co-founder of the Lincoln Project. “Unilateral disarmament is never a good idea and I’m hopeful that the Biden campaign will recognize this in the next 24 hours and get back on the ball here to make sure the playing field does not become unbalanced.”The Trump campaign, which flatly rejected taking its own negative ads off the air, also called the move by Biden insincere, saying negative ads were still airing. "Joe Biden’s negative ads did not come down and were still running three days later,” said Tim Murtaugh, Trump’s communications director. "If the rule is you don’t attack the guy in the hospital, why would the president pull down his own ads?"But data from the ad tracking firm Advertising Analytics that was shared with POLITICO show that Biden’s negative ad traffic decreased dramatically. On Oct. 1, the day before the president’s diagnosis became public, the campaign aired over 300 spots nationwide that the tracker classified as negative, 2,100 positive spots and 7,100 “contrast” spots, more of a gray-zone classification.On Oct. 3, the day following the president’s hospitalization, the campaign aired just 29 spots classified as negative, a bit under 1,400 contrast spots and nearly 3,700 positive spots. The remaining trickle of ads coded as negative are likely a result of stations being slow to pull content, a common occurrence in last-minute changes to large TV campaigns.On Monday, the first full weekday after following Trump’s hospitalization (and the day he left Walter Reed), the campaign aired 2 negative spots, 1,400 contrast spots and 7,400 positive ones.Some Biden supporters, including Wilson, told POLITICO they believe that now is the perfect time to draw a contrast between the former vice president’s cautious approach toward Covid-19 and Trump’s recklessness in handling it, even within his own ranks. But others were unperturbed by the campaign’s decision, assuming the decision likely was made by Biden himself.“I think it's a safe bet that this came from the candidate,” Schwerin said. “Some of these decisions are not about what helps us win tomorrow … and if Biden thought that it was the wrong thing to be attacking his opponent while he was in the hospital, I understand that.”Some Democrats have argued that it’s a smart strategic shift for Biden to shelve the attack ads because positive spots are the most persuasive to swing voters.“The ads that test the best are positive ads that are very specific about what Joe Biden will do as president,” said Steve Schale, executive director of the pro-Biden super PAC Unite the Country. “In some elections, you have to disqualify the incumbent. In this election, the incumbent has basically been disqualified. He did it on his own.”Chuck Rocha, a former Bernie Sanders aide who founded the pro-Biden Nuestro PAC, said he is planning to send out negative direct mail that takes aim at the issue at hand. He described the theme as being: “If Donald Trump can’t take care of himself, how do we expect him to take care of America?”Still, Rocha said, he supports the Biden campaign’s decision to stay above the fray itself: “I think it’s the right idea for Biden to not go negative because that’s what you have super PACs for.”Tara McGowan, the CEO of ACRONYM, agreed: “As a super PAC that exists for the sole purpose of filling gaps the campaign cannot fill, it is our job to not cede the online news feeds to Trump or the right-wing media at this critical time.”RootsAction.org, a progressive 501(c)4 backing Biden, is likewise not ditching its negative digital ad campaign. On the contrary, Norman Solomon, co-founder of the organization, said it is expanding into three additional battleground states: Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Iowa.“We haven’t changed anything about the content of our messaging because nothing has changed about the threat of another four years,” he said. “We’re not mitigating our criticism of what Trump has done or the danger he poses for the future.”© 2020 POLITICO LLCCORONAVIRUSDemocrats and Republicans will now battle over who is to blame while millions of Americans continue to suffer financial hardship.President Donald Trump stands on the Truman Balcony after returning to the White House from Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. | Win McNamee/Getty ImagesBy JOHN BRESNAHAN, HEATHER CAYGLE and SARAH FERRIS10/06/2020 03:09 PM EDTUpdated: 10/06/2020 06:28 PM EDTPresident Donald Trump said Tuesday he is ending negotiations with Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Democratic leaders over a new economic aid package to respond to the coronavirus until after Nov. 3, a momentous decision that will impact the millions of Americans suffering from the pandemic and could sway the outcome of the election.One day after being released from the hospital after contracting Covid-19, Trump blamed Pelosi for the failure to reach an agreement on the coronavirus relief legislation. But in reality the two sides have remained hundreds of billions of dollars apart through high-level discussions that have dragged on since July.AdvertisementWith Trump's decision to end the negotiations, Democrats and Republicans will now battle over who is to blame while millions of Americans continue to suffer serious financial and medical hardships. More than 210,000 Americans have died from the virus and millions of others remain out of work.“Nancy Pelosi is asking for $2.4 Trillion Dollars to bailout poorly run, high crime, Democrat States, money that is in no way related to COVID-19. We made a very generous offer of $1.6 Trillion Dollars and, as usual, she is not negotiating in good faith. I am rejecting their … request, and looking to the future of our Country,” Trump tweeted Tuesday afternoon following a phone call with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.).“I have instructed my representatives to stop negotiating until after the election when, immediately after I win, we will pass a major Stimulus Bill that focuses on hardworking Americans and Small Business.”Trump added: “I have asked Mitch McConnell not to delay, but to instead focus full time on approving my outstanding nominee to the United States Supreme Court, Amy Coney Barrett."McConnell told reporters in the Capitol on Tuesday that he backed Trump's decision to withdraw from the negotiations.“I think his view was, they were not gonna produce a result, and we need to concentrate on what’s achievable,” McConnell told reporters.Trump’s move stunned many on Capitol Hill, including Pelosi, and represents an enormous — and politically perilous — gamble by Republicans. Trump’s handling of the coronavirus crisis has been heavily disapproved of by the American public and threatens to sink his reelection bid, as well as the Senate GOP majority, according to public-opinion polls. Now, Trump is betting he can convince skeptical Americans that he can save the economy, even as a coronavirus outbreak inside the White House has forced his own aides into quarantine.Pelosi blasted Trump for the decision, pointing to the unprecedented scene of the last five days, with Trump having to be taken to Walter Reed Medical Center by helicopter after he and first lady Melania Trump contracted coronavirus.“Clearly the White House is in complete disarray,” Pelosi said in a statement Tuesday afternoon. “Today, once again, President Trump showed his true colors: putting himself first at the expense of the country, with the full complicity of the GOP members of Congress.”Pelosi announced the news of Trump’s tweet during a private Democratic Caucus call that was already underway. Pelosi slammed Trump on the call, saying Democrats had worked meticulously to create a “strategic plan to crush this virus” that Trump then blew up in a series of tweets.Pelosi went on to say Trump, who just days earlier pushed for a deal, was sending the country “a terrible message” by appearing maskless at the White House Monday in his high-profile return from the hospital and recording a subsequent video without a mask downplaying the impact of the deadly virus.Pelosi also insinuated that Trump’s rash decision could be impacted by the steroids doctors prescribed to help him fight off the coronavirus.“There are people who thought, who think that steroids have an impact on your thinking. So, I don’t know," Pelosi said. “I do practice medicine on the side without benefit of diploma, as a mother and a grandmother, but I hadn’t gone into mental health yet.”In a statement, Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden criticized the president for ending talks and turning his back “on the small businesses that are struggling to keep their doors open.”“Make no mistake: if you are out of work, if your business is closed, if your child's school is shut down, if you are seeing layoffs in your community, Donald Trump decided today that none of that — none of it — matters to him,” he said. “There will be no help from Washington for the foreseeable future.”Mnuchin and Pelosi had been negotiating in private for days. Those talks had led to some progress, but the two sides remained far apart on a number of key issues — aid to state and local governments; legal liability protections for schools and businesses that reopened; federal payments for the unemployed; a child tax credit; and other issues. Pelosi and Mnuchin had been swapping offers and were supposed to have another call Tuesday afternoon.But GOP insiders said Trump was “very disappointed” with the progress of the negotiations following his call with Mnuchin, McConnell and McCarthy. The decision was made to “pull the plug [on the talks] and take it to the American people.”Swing-district House Democrats — who had been most aggravated that talks between the two parties were taking so long to begin with — were in disbelief at Trump’s tweet. Several argued that while it would be disastrous for millions of suffering families, it would also allow Democrats to pin the blame squarely on Trump and the GOP in the final few weeks of campaigning.These centrist Democrats, roughly two dozen in the tightest races in the nation, had been making personal pleas to Pelosi and her leadership team, urging them to reach a deal over the weekend. But Trump’s tweet dramatically changes the calculus, with Democrats now able to aggressively go after the GOP for the inaction.“After getting the best medical care for Covid-19, Trump is telling the rest of us we’re on our own,” said Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-Va.). “It’s a tragic development for all Americans based on a cynical political calculation.”Now, those worries will intensify among vulnerable Senate Republicans, who had already stepped up their calls for the two parties to reach a deal in recent weeks, weary of the fallout back home with increasingly frustrated voters.The breakdown in the stimulus negotiations comes as pressure has been increasing on Washington to act, with the U.S. economy continuing to sputter. Earlier on Tuesday, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell delivered a rare plea to Congress for more stimulus, warning of widespread layoffs and economic despair if there was no further relief.“Too little support would lead to a weak recovery, creating unnecessary hardship for households and businesses,” Powell said as he addressed a meeting of the National Association for Business Economics.Already, the nation’s jobless rate remains at record highs and key industries — from airlines to oil refineries — are shedding more jobs by the day. The stock market had remained high, but key indexes tanked within minutes of the president’s decision to withdraw from the talks.© 2020 POLITICO LLCCORONAVIRUSSenior Pentagon leadership who had been exposed all tested negative on Tuesday and are all self-quarantining.Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Gen. Mark Milley speaks during a ceremony. | J. Scott Applewhite/ AP PhotoBy SARAH CAMMARATA, LARA SELIGMAN and JACQUELINE FELDSCHER10/06/2020 01:24 PM EDTUpdated: 10/06/2020 05:35 PM EDTThe nation’s top military leaders, including Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Mark Milley, are self-quarantining after coming into contact last week with the Coast Guard's No. 2 officer, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, according to administration officials.Senior military leaders who attended several meetings at the Pentagon last week with Adm. Charles Ray, the vice commandant of the Coast Guard, tested negative for Covid-19 on Tuesday but are self-quarantining as a precaution, a defense official said.AdvertisementOfficials believe that a Friday meeting in the “tank" — the Pentagon’s secure conference room for senior military leaders — is where the virus could have spread to others, a second defense official said.Pentagon officials are conducting additional contact tracing and taking other precautions “to protect the force and the mission,” said Pentagon spokesperson Jonathan Hoffman.“Out of an abundance of caution, all potential close contacts from these meetings are self-quarantining and have been tested this morning,” Hoffman said Tuesday afternoon. “No Pentagon contacts have exhibited symptoms and we have no additional positive tests to report at this time.”Ray was among several military leaders who attended an event at the White House on Sept. 27 celebrating Gold Star families. A day earlier, the White House held an outdoor event as President Donald Trump officially nominated Amy Coney Barrett to be the next Supreme Court justice. Many people who attended have since tested positive, including Trump himself.The admiral felt "mild symptoms" this weekend and got tested Monday, according to a Coast Guard statement.Trump's doctor released a flimsy update on his health, while the president spread dubious information about the coronavirus — a virus that has infected more than 7.4 million Americans and killed nearly 210,000.Not all of the military’s leaders are under quarantine. Marine Commandant Gen. David Berger, Defense Secretary Mark Esper and Navy Secretary Kenneth Braithwaite were traveling last week and did not attend the Pentagon meetings with Ray.Coast Guard Commandant Adm. Karl Schultz has also been on travel and has not been in contact with Ray, spokesperson Jay Guyer said.The Joint Chiefs of Staff includes the chairman, vice chairman, and the four-star heads of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, National Guard and Space Force.Beyond the Joint Chiefs, other leaders who took part in the meetings and are under self-quarantine include U.S. Cyber Command chief Gen. Paul Nakasone and Gen. Gary Thomas, assistant Marine Corps commandant, a third defense official said.Milley and Vice Chairman Gen. John Hyten get tested “on a regular basis” for Covid-19, the first defense official said, adding that the length of military leaders’ quarantine period will be “conditions-based.”“Anybody we know on the Joint Staff who was in contact with Adm. Ray has been tested and is observing CDC protocol,” the official said.All of the Joint Chiefs have the ability to do their jobs from wherever they are working, the official said.“There is no change to the operational readiness or mission capability of the U.S. Armed Forces,” Hoffman said. “Senior military leaders are able to remain fully mission capable and perform their duties from an alternative work location.”Yet House Armed Services Chair Adam Smith (D-Wash.) said the "national security implications of the President’s recklessness cannot be overstated.""Our adversaries are always looking for any weakness to exploit," Smith said. "President Trump’s pathetic attempts to exude strength aren’t fooling anyone — Americans know he is weak and so do those who wish us harm."This week’s developments mark the Joint Chiefs’ second brush with coronavirus.In May, Gen. Joseph Lengyel, then the head of the National Guard, tested positive when visiting the White House, although a subsequent test showed he was negative.That same week, Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Mike Gilday self-quarantined after coming into contact with a family member who had tested positive.© 2020 POLITICO LLCFLORIDAThe president indicated Tuesday he was planning to attend the Oct. 15 presidential debate.Miami Mayor Francis Suarez has stated that Trump should not come to his city for the Oct. 15 debate if Trump has still tested positive for Covid-19. | Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesBy MARC CAPUTO10/06/2020 03:16 PM EDTMIAMI — The Republican mayor of Miami said Donald Trump shouldn’t come to his city for the Oct. 15 debate with Joe Biden if the president is still testing positive with Covid-19.“I don’t think it’s safe, not for him and anybody else, anywhere or anyone he interacts with,” Mayor Francis Suarez told POLITICO.Advertisement“Remember, this thing is highly contagious,” Suarez said. “How many people are infected in his inner circle, in the White House, senators, et cetera?”The concerns of Suarez, which are shared by several other Miami-Dade County officials, add another layer of controversy to the president’s conduct while he’s positive for the virus, and reflect the tensions in behind-the-scenes discussions between the Biden and Trump campaigns as they negotiate over whether and how to have a safe, in-person debate.Biden’s campaign, which has doubts about the accuracy of information concerning Trump’s health, already requested that his running mate, Sen. Kamala Harris, be divided from Vice President Mike Pence with plexiglass at their Wednesday matchup.On Tuesday morning, Trump indicated he planned to attend the second presidential debate.“I am looking forward to the debate on the evening of Thursday, October 15th in Miami. It will be great!” he wrote on Twitter. A campaign spokesperson referred questions to the White House about the president’s pre-debate Covid-19 tests. A White House spokesperson did not reply to an email requesting comment.Suarez said he’s not sure whether plexiglass should be used if the president tests negative. But he expressed certainty about installing a plexiglass shield if Trump shows up while he’s positive. The mayor said his city is ready to help with law-enforcement security for the president’s arrival, but he’s asking the city manager to examine potential health issues arising from a presidential visit when the commander in chief is contagious.Trump's doctor released a flimsy update on his health, while the president spread dubious information about the coronavirus — a virus that has infected more than 7.4 million Americans and killed nearly 210,000.Dr. Aileen Marty, a Florida International University epidemiologist who advises Miami-Dade County government and its school district, said she needs far more data on Trump’s illness to be conclusive about his condition on Oct. 15. But when she factors in the information that’s been publicly released, her knowledge of the virus and the 74-year-old Trump’s obesity, she thinks he should not come at all.“Under no circumstance should he be traveling to perform in a debate at this time. He is contagious to others and a health risk to others. Doing so is also a health risk to him,” said Marty, who worked on and off at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, where Trump was hospitalized for the illness before returning to the White House.If they end up debating in Miami, Marty said, the candidates “should be in separate rooms with separate ventilation systems.” If plexiglass is utilized, “better make it a totally enclosed plexiglass ‘room’ with HEPA filtered air coming in and out of the space.”Dr. Mary Jo Trepka, Marty’s colleague at FIU, said, “I don’t think plexiglass can hurt.” But if she were advising the campaigns or the Commission on Presidential Debates, she would say they should not be in the same room.“I would do a virtual debate,” said Trepka, who consults for the city of Miami. “I think a person should do as many precautions as possible, and certainly plexiglass would be one of them.”Trepka said the president’s case is unique and spotlights the “greyness” of Centers for Disease Control coronavirus social-distancing guidance and the level of public information about the president’s health.Most people clear the virus within 10 days, she noted, which is why the CDC recommends infected people isolate for that period of time if they’ve improved and have no fever without the use of drugs like Tylenol.“However, if people are severely ill — which CDC defines as a person’s oxygen-saturation level — then they need to be isolated up to 20 days,” Tepka said, adding that she doesn’t know that data, which the president’s medical team has refused to release.Absent knowing the oxygen-saturation level, she said, FIU requires its employees to isolate for 20 days if they’ve been hospitalized. While Trump was hospitalized, it’s unclear the degree to which he did it as a prophylactic measure. And he was administered experimental therapies, making him a patient unlike any other.Suarez said his concerns are rooted in personal as well as political experience. Miami had some of the state’s strictest coronavirus-related lockdowns and highest number of coronavirus cases in Florida. Suarez himself was one of the first to get the virus, possibly from the press secretary of Brazil’s president, Jair Bolsonaro, who was later infected himself. Bolsonaro has long downplayed the dangers of the virus — even to a greater degree than Trump.Suarez said it took him 17 days from his first positive test to get a negative test and was in isolation for the entire period. Trump announced he was positive on Oct. 1.The 43-year-old mayor, a fitness buff who was vegan at the time and refraining from caffeine and alcohol, credits his health for preventing serious illness during his recovery. Suarez, who supported Hillary Clinton in 2016 even though he’s a Republican, said he’s not discussing whom he will vote for in November.The mayor of surrounding Miami-Dade County, Republican Carlos Gimenez, said he wasn’t sure about the need for plexiglass. A Trump ally, Gimenez said he would “ask our medical advisers on distancing and any other measures. I’ll have a meeting with them before the debate.”Asked if he had concerns that Trump might be Covid-positive if he came, Gimenez said, “No. We have a number of people here positive that we know of and don’t know of. We will know what his contagion level is and take the appropriate precautions.”Miami Beach Mayor Dan Gelber, a Democrat, said he’s not so sure about trusting the information from the White House after “his own doctor laughed about his misrepresentations about the president’s health.”Gelber pointed out a certain irony in Trump coming here because his ally, GOP Gov. Ron DeSantis, had at one point required all New Yorkers coming to Florida to quarantine upon arrival. Trump, who lived in New York when he won the presidency, declared Florida residency this year so the rule wouldn’t have applied to him.“This is insane,” Gelber said. “There should not be an exemption from proper safety and health precautions because you’re the president.”© 2020 POLITICO LLCBy QUINT FORGEY10/06/2020 09:08 AM EDTUpdated: 10/06/2020 02:36 PM EDTPresident Donald Trump “continues to do extremely well” upon returning to the White House after being hospitalized with Covid-19, according to a new assessment from his personal doctor that provided few substantive details about the president’s health.In a memo released on Tuesday afternoon by the White House, physician to the president Sean Conley wrote that Trump’s medical team met with him that morning in the Executive Residence, where he “had a restful first night at home, and today he reports no symptoms.”AdvertisementThe president’s vital signs remain stable with an oxygen saturation level of 95-97 percent, Conley reported, and “he continues to do extremely well” overall.But that was the extent of the medical information provided by the White House’s top doctor in his first update since the president was discharged Monday evening from Walter Reed National Military Medical Center.Noticeably absent from Conley’s memo were other clues about Trump’s health that reporters and public health experts have sought in recent days, including the condition of his lungs after being battered by an acute respiratory disease and the definitive timeline of his Covid-19 tests.Trump, for his part, insisted on Twitter that he was “FEELING GREAT” while attacking political rivals and reprising a dubious comparison he had repeatedly invoked in the early stages of the U.S. outbreak.FEELING GREAT!“Flu season is coming up! Many people every year, sometimes over 100,000, and despite the Vaccine, die from the Flu,” Trump wrote. “Are we going to close down our Country? No, we have learned to live with it, just like we are learning to live with Covid, in most populations far less lethal!!!”In fact, the most deaths to have resulted from a flu season in the U.S. over the past decade is estimated to be roughly 61,000 in 2017-2018, according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — well below the president’s claim of 100,000 or more.Over the past 10 years, an average of just under 36,000 Americans have died annually from the flu. More than 200,000 Americans have died from Covid-19 since the virus emerged early this year.And while flu strains change from year to year, varying in severity, most people have some underlying immunity based on prior exposure. The coronavirus was only identified late last year.Trump himself appeared to tell The Washington Post’s Bob Woodward in a February interview that the coronavirus was five times more lethal than the flu, saying that Covid-19 is “deadly stuff” and “more deadly than … even your strenuous flus.”Senior health officials have warned that that the fall and winter months could significantly strain the nation’s health care system as it grapples with both a potential resurgence of the coronavirus and its yearly fight against the flu.Twitter and Facebook, where Trump posted a message identical to his tweet, took steps to stop the spread of the president’s missive a few hours after it was shared with his millions of followers.Facebook removed the post for violating rules against misrepresenting the severity of the coronavirus, a spokesperson said, while Twitter slapped a notice on the tweet for containing misinformation and restricted others from liking or sharing it.Trump’s tweet resembled other messaging from the president in the past 24 hours that has been dismissive of the disease’s threat — even as he has received two rounds of oxygen therapy, two experimental drugs — including one that is not available to the broader patient population — and one steroid generally reserved for severe or critical Covid-19 cases.Trump also was treated by a top team of physicians in the presidential quarters of a military hospital.Ahead of his departure from Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, Trump tweeted on Monday afternoon that Americans should not “be afraid of Covid” and should not “let it dominate your life.”When he returned to the White House on Monday evening, the presumably still-contagious president ascended the steps to the Truman Balcony and removed his mask to pose and salute for the cameras before entering the executive mansion.And in a video message posted to Twitter later Monday night, Trump claimed he might be “immune” from the coronavirus — despite testing positive for Covid-19 last week — and again urged Americans: “Don’t let it dominate. Don’t let it take over your lives.”During his hospital stay, the president seemed to project that he was taking the disease somewhat more seriously than he had prior to his diagnosis. On Sunday, he said that his sickness had “been a very interesting journey” and that he had “learned a lot about Covid.”“I learned it by really going to school,” Trump said in a video message posted to Twitter. “This isn’t the ‘let’s-read-the-book’ school. And I get it. And I understand it. And it’s a very interesting thing. And I’m going to be letting you know about it.”Meanwhile, the president’s top aides and campaign staff have argued that Trump being infected with Covid-19 will equip him to better confront the pandemic and empathize with affected Americans.“Now, I think the president is able to, you know, talk from the heart [about] how Covid has impacted him, has impacted his family and his staff, his closest staff,” Trump campaign senior adviser Mercedes Schlapp said on Monday.White House chief of staff Mark Meadows said on Monday that Trump is “understanding what millions of Americans have had to face,” and Trump campaign spokesperson Erin Perrine implied Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden was less qualified to discuss the coronavirus because he had not been infected.“He has experience now fighting the coronavirus as an individual,” Perrine said on Monday of Trump. “Those first-hand experiences, Joe Biden, he doesn’t have those.”On Tuesday afternoon, however, Trump appeared reluctant to embrace the coronavirus as a campaign issue, complaining that the “Fake News Media” refuses to cover the economy. “All they want to discuss is COVID 19,” he tweeted.Trump also tweeted that he was “looking forward” to participating in the next presidential debate in Miami, even though his presence could still potentially expose Biden to infection.Steven Overly contributed to this report.Trump's doctor released a flimsy update on his health, while the president spread dubious information about the coronavirus — a virus that has infected more than 7.4 million Americans and killed nearly 210,000.© 2020 POLITICO LLCEven as he recovers from a coronavirus case that left him hospitalized for days, President Donald Trump has intensified a late-campaign effort to undermine widely accepted evidence about Russia’s election interference efforts in 2016.Trump authorized the declassification and release of documents this week based on intelligence that even his own advisers warn could be Russian disinformation, in what his allies have signaled is aimed at sowing doubt at the intelligence community’s conclusion that the meddling in the 2016 campaign came at the Kremlin’s direction — and was intended to boost his candidacy.AdvertisementAs Trump was still recuperating in the presidential suite at Walter Reed on Monday, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows said the president had “already tasked me with getting some declassification rolling” on sensitive Russia probe documents.Some of those documents were released on Tuesday afternoon, including heavily redacted notes from former CIA Director John Brennan following a briefing with then-President Barack Obama. The notes describe intelligence reports that were drawn from Russian operatives, summaries of which Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe declassified last week.In the legible, unredacted portion of Brennan’s notes, first published by Fox News, he wrote: “We’re getting additional insight into Russian activities from [REDACTED].”In another section, the notes describe an alleged plan “approved by Hillary Clinton a proposal from one of her foreign policy advisers to vilify Donald Trump by stirring up a scandal claiming interference by the Russian security service.”A second, also heavily redacted document released on Tuesday, a summary of the intelligence the CIA prepared for the FBI, describes “an exchange” between unknown individuals regarding “Hillary Clinton’s approval of a plan concerning U.S. Presidential Candidate Donald Trump and Russian hackers hampering U.S. elections as a means of distracting the public from the use of her private email server.”Some Trump allies say have framed this latest declassification push not as an effort to question Russia's interference at all but simply to question the "Trump-Russia collusion" narrative that loomed over the White House for much of Trump's presidency. But Ratcliffe's release suggested that the Russian intelligence indicated the attribution of 2016 interference to Russia at all was part of a Clinton plot to stir up a scandal against Trump. And many Trump allies have deployed the new evidence to broadly declare that the entire scandal was cooked up by Democrats.Republicans and Democrats had previously rejected this Russian chatter as likely disinformation intended to deflect from Moscow’s own hacking operation targeting the Democratic National Committee. And Clinton herself was publicly making the case at the time that Trump was inviting Russian interference. Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Clinton, said last week that the documents were “baseless bullshit.”Four people familiar with the matter said the Russians’ assessment of Clinton was only one part of a larger intelligence report that was billed as an initial examination of Russian cyberattacks targeting the 2016 election, and was not the reason why it was referred to the bureau.The people all described Ratcliffe as “cherry-picking” portions of the intelligence to try to tarnish Trump’s political enemies.Brennan told CNN on Tuesday that the declassified material was his “notes from the 2016 period when I briefed President Obama and the rest of the national security council team about what the Russians were up to, and I was giving examples of the type of access that the U.S. intelligence community had to Russian information and what the Russians were talking about and alleging.”He added that “if, in fact, what the Russians were alleging — that Hillary was trying to highlight the reported connections between Trump and the Russians — there is nothing at all illegal about that.”The effort to discredit the intelligence community’s findings that Russia hacked Democrats to harm Clinton’s candidacy comes almost exactly four years to the day the U.S. intelligence community first assessed that the Russian government had mounted a sweeping effort to interfere in the 2016 presidential election with the specific goal of helping Trump win.It also comes in the middle of an ongoing investigation by U.S. Attorney John Durham, who was tasked by the Justice Department with probing the intelligence community’s findings. Durham is expected to refrain from releasing any conclusions before Election Day to avoid impacting the race, but the recent declassifications by both Ratcliffe and Attorney General William Barr appear to be an effort to fill that void. Trump has taken full advantage of it, weaponizing the releases to boost his re-election campaign.The new round of declassifications also serves a larger and more vindictive purpose for the president: It is the latest salvo in a years-long effort to cast doubt on U.S. intelligence agencies and senior Obama administration officials, whom the president alleges were unfairly and illegally targeting him and his campaign. Trump’s crusade has extended to questioning assessments by his own administration that Russia is actively backing him in the 2020 election; he went as far as to fire a top intelligence official who, earlier this year, allowed a subordinate to brief Congress about Russia’s interference in the ongoing presidential race.The latest news in defense policy and politics.By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.Trump’s detractors, meanwhile, say he has systematically warped intelligence agencies to promote his preferred narrative and selectively declassified information to undercut key findings about Russia’s intentions and ongoing malign activities.In media appearances on Sunday and Monday, Trump’s national security adviser Robert O’Brien did not acknowledge the intelligence community’s judgment that the Kremlin is already engaged in efforts to denigrate Joe Biden and support Trump’s reelection, instead touting assurances he had received from top Russian officials forswearing interference in the 2020 election.“Look, it's Russia,” O’Brien said Sunday on CBS’ “Face the Nation.” “So as President Reagan said, and as President Trump often says, it's trust but verify. So we'll keep an eye on it, but the Russians did commit to not interfere in the elections.”Ratcliffe’s latest declassifications center around some chatter by Russian intelligence officers that was picked up by the U.S. intelligence community in 2016. The intelligence, Ratcliffe indicated in a letter to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) last week, suggested that the Russians believed Clinton authorized a campaign strategy to tie Trump to Russia’s intelligence services and their operation to undermine Democrats four years ago.Ratcliffe further told Graham, who is investigating the origins of the FBI’s Russia probe, that the intelligence community had referred the Russian chatter to the bureau for further investigation in 2016.Former acting CIA Director Michael Morell, who endorsed Clinton in 2016, called Ratcliffe’s reclassifications “the most politicized act I’ve ever seen by a senior intel official” and “a blatant attempt to get votes for Donald Trump before the election.“This is Russian disinformation designed to create the very political chaos that it's creating. This is Putin playing with us,” he added.Ratcliffe also acknowledged last week that the information he disclosed might have been “exaggerated” or “fabricated” by Russian intelligence services, raising concerns among even some Republicans about Ratcliffe’s decision to publish the Russian assessment. “It certainly raises questions... about the appropriateness of publicly releasing it,” said Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee.Ratcliffe later asserted the material was “not Russian disinformation and has not been assessed as such by the intelligence community.” The next day, the intel chief briefed members of the Gang of Eight — the group of congressional leaders privy to the most sensitive intelligence reports — about his letter to Graham that first revealed the unverified Russian intelligence assessment, according to two sources familiar with the briefing.Sen. Angus King (I-Maine), a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, worried last week that even the release of Ratcliffe’s summary may have compromised the U.S. intelligence community’s ability to collect information on the Russian intelligence services. “One of the things I want to try to determine is ... to what extent was this release cleared by the intelligence services themselves,” he said. “My experience is that information like this would not be released normally because of the potential compromise of sources and methods.”But Trump was ready to deploy the newly disclosed information during last week’s debate against Biden.In his comments Monday, Meadows indicated that the material Trump directed for release has been sought by California Rep. Devin Nunes, the top Republican on the House Intelligence Committee, who over the weekend suggested that the entire U.S. intelligence apparatus should be shut down unless the documents were released.“We want every damn bit of evidence that every intelligence agency has or it’s maybe time to shut those agencies down,” Nunes said Sunday on Fox News.The effort has high-profile supporters in the Senate, too: Graham, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), who chairs the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, have lauded Ratcliffe for releasing several pieces of information they say support their claims that the FBI targeted Trump and his campaign unfairly. In a brief interview last week, Graham indicated that it didn’t matter whether the declassified material was actually true.“Can you imagine if they found something alleging wrongdoing by Trump that the FBI never even looked at? People would be going crazy,” Graham said. “So it’s not whether it’s true or not. The question is, did the FBI try to find out whether it was true after they were informed by the intelligence community of their concerns?”“At some point, maybe the press will wake up and go, maybe we’re looking at the wrong people here,” added Johnson.Brennan, for his part, has denied accusations by Trump’s allies that he politicized the intelligence community’s findings in January 2017, when it concluded that Moscow interfered with the goal of helping Trump.“I left it up to the CIA components responsible for Russia, cyber, and counterintelligence to select the relevant experts, some of whom had served in the fusion cell, to write the report,” he wrote in his recently released book.When two senior managers approached him in late 2016 and said they only had medium confidence in the assessment of Putin’s motives, Brennan suggested they raise their concerns with the analysts who wrote the report and had seen all of the raw intelligence, he recalled. The managers agreed, and never went back to Brennan with further issues, said a person familiar with the matter.Trump's doctor released a flimsy update on his health, while the president spread dubious information about the coronavirus — a virus that has infected more than 7.4 million Americans and killed nearly 210,000.© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy PolicyBut partisan disagreements over next steps may blunt the report's immediate impact, despite a widespread desire to rein in Silicon Valley titans among both conservative and liberal lawmakers. Several of the committee's Republicans, led by Rep. Ken Buck of Colorado, endorsed some Democrat-backed proposals in a separate report unveiled Tuesday while warning that the majority's more aggressive recommendations are "non-starters for conservatives."The investigation: The subcommittee issued Tuesday's recommendations in a report that assailed the business practices of Silicon Valley’s most powerful companies, who lawmakers said have unfairly stifled competitors to the detriment of consumers. As part of the probe, lawmakers and staff have collected over a million documents, interviewed hundreds of witnesses and hauled in the companies' CEOs to testify this summer.Among other allegations, the panel investigated complaints that tech titans have trampled competitors by acquiring up-and-coming rivals and favoring their own products on the online storefronts they operate, such as Amazon's Marketplace and Apple's App Store."To put it simply, companies that once were scrappy, underdog startups that challenged the status quo have become the kinds of monopolies we last saw in the era of oil barons and railroad tycoons," said Reps. Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.) and David Cicilline (D-R.I.), chairs of the full committee and subcommittee, in the report. "Although these firms have delivered clear benefits to society, the dominance of Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Google has come at a price."House Judiciary Chair Jerry Nadler. | Shawn Thew-Pool/Getty ImagesThe proposals: The report calls for an array of changes, some of which boast bipartisan support while others have only Democratic backing.Among them are Democratic proposals to ban major tech platforms from acquiring future startups or potential rivals and barring them from both owning marketplaces — such as Amazon’s sprawling e-commerce hub — and selling competing products on them.The report also calls on Congress to grant federal antitrust enforcers new resources to police possible abuses by the major firms, despite decades of “institutional failure” where the agencies “failed to block monopolists from establishing or maintaining their dominance.” Recommendation include increasing budgets, allowing the Federal Trade Commission to seek civil penalties for violations and imposing stricter prohibitions on senior staff from the agencies doing work for the companies after their tenure.Democratic subcommittee member Pramila Jayapal of Washington state said Tuesday that she expects lawmakers will quickly look to turn the policy recommendations into actionable legislation once Congress returns in 2021 — if not sooner."I do hope that we will have legislation introduced early in the session and we can ideally in a year move significant pieces of legislation," she said in an interview.Where the parties differ: Republican lawmakers said in a separate report Tuesday that they support boosting funding and staffing levels for regulators and some more modest proposals to change U.S. antitrust laws, but they balked at Democrats’ more aggressive proposals. They include what Cicilline has described as a Glass-Steagall law for technology platforms, a reference to the Depression-era law that split up commercial and investment banking.Instead, Republicans favor making it easier for antitrust enforcers at the Justice Department and Federal Trade Commission to block mergers by "shifting the burden of proof" on what constitutes an anti-competitive acquisition. GOP lawmakers also supported measures to give consumers more control of their data by making personal information portable and interoperable among platforms."We agree that antitrust enforcement agencies need additional resources and tools to provide proper oversight," Buck wrote in a response to the Democratic-majority's recommendations, as POLITICO first reported Monday. "However, these potential changes need not be dramatic to be effective.Reps. Doug Collins of Georgia, who served as the top Republican on Judiciary until earlier this year; Matt Gaetz of Florida, who sits on the antitrust subcommittee; and Andy Biggs of Arizona joined Buck is supporting the report.All four released statements saying they hope to pursue work in a bipartisan fashion as Congress moves toward drafting legislation.The bias issue: After the report surfaced Tuesday, Judiciary's top Republican rebuked the panel's Democratic leaders for not addressing allegations of an anti-conservative bias by top social media platforms, which the companies deny and Democrats dismiss as baseless."Big tech is out to get conservatives," Rep. Jim Jordan of Ohio said in a statement. "Unfortunately, the Democrats’ partisan report ignores this fundamental problem and potential solutions and instead advances radical proposals that would refashion antitrust law in the vision of the far left.”And in another GOP report spearheaded by Jordan and released later Tuesday, Judiciary Republicans called for revamping the liability protections that shield Facebook, Twitter and other internet companies to open them up to lawsuits over allegations of political bias.POLITICO NEWSLETTERSTechnology news from Washington and Silicon Valley — weekday mornings, in your inbox.By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.The reaction: The Democratic report received praise from anti-monopoly groups, consumer advocates and representatives for industries who say they have been harmed by Silicon Valley giants' anti-competitive conduct.Stacy Mitchell, co-director of the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, said the majority report “marks a dramatic advance in the debate about monopoly power and Big Tech." Laura Bassett of the Save Journalism Project, a group that has railed against tech giants' squeezing the news industry, said the Democratic recommendations "would help reset the competitive landscape and restore fairness to the online marketplace."But tech industry and business groups quickly opposed the recommendations, saying they would stifle innovation and harm the U.S. economy.NetChoice, a trade association that counts Amazon, Google and Facebook as members, called the Democratic proposals "extreme" and said they'd "stifle small businesses and put cronyism ahead of consumer interests.” The Chamber of Commerce urged Congress" to refrain from relying on this one-sided staff report to guide future legislation."Leah Nylen contributed to this report.© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy PolicyEMPLOYMENT & IMMIGRATIONOSHA's tiny fines amount to a "slap on the wrist," advocates say.The fines levied against the two companies were low partly because the Labor Department has declined to issue mandatory Covid-19 safety rules that companies must follow to protect employees during the pandemic, instead offering optional guidelines. | J. Scott Applewhite/AP PhotoBy REBECCA RAINEY10/06/2020 03:20 PM EDTThe federal agency charged with workplace safety has done little to punish companies when their workers get sick or even die from the coronavirus, as major employers and President Donald Trump’s political appointees have pushed for a much more lenient approach to handling risks like Covid-19 on the job than previous administrations.The Occupational Safety and Health Administration has received 10,485 complaints and referrals about Covid-19 risks at workplaces and closed 8,702 of them during the pandemic. But in these cases -- some involving companies worth millions -- the agency hasn't proposed a single penalty greater than $30,000 for coronavirus-related risks.AdvertisementWith U.S. coronavirus deaths climbing above 200,000, Democrats and labor groups have been hammering the federal government to step up its enforcement, pushing for stricter safety rules and tougher penalties for bad actors.But Trump's regulators are taking a more relaxed approach than even previous Republican administrations when using their special enforcement powers to punish companies who expose workers to the virus. Republicans and business lobbying groups, including the Chamber of Commerce, have lined up against the establishment of a strict coronavirus standard, arguing that employers need flexibility during the pandemic.Just last month, OSHA levied its first citations against the meatpacking industry for coronavirus workplace safety risks, fining two of the world's largest meat companies, Smithfield and JBS Foods, roughly $29,000 combined after at least 12 workers died and almost 1,500 became infected at their plants.The fines sparked an uproar from worker advocacy groups, one of whom called the penalties a “slap on the wrist” to the giant companies.“Every enforcement action sends a message,” said Dr. David Michaels, who led OSHA under the Obama administration. “These tiny fines are OSHA sending a message to meat factories across the country that they don't have to worry anymore. . . they can operate as they please no matter how many workers are sick, injured or killed."The fines levied against the two companies were low partly because the Labor Department, led by former management-side attorney Eugene Scalia, has declined to issue mandatory Covid-19 safety rules that companies must follow to protect employees during the pandemic, instead offering optional guidelines.President Donald Trump and Melania Trump have tested positive for Covid-19.Scalia says the agency has all the enforcement power it needs under OSHA’s “general duty clause,” which requires employers to generally maintain a safe workplace “free from hazards" that are likely "to cause death or serious physical harm."But the agency has only used the general duty clause twice during the crisis when citing employers for not protecting workers from the virus -- when it fined Smithfield and JBS Foods in September.In some workplaces, like hospitals and nursing homes, OSHA has handed employers a stack of citations during Covid-19 for violating its respirator or protective equipment rules.However, in industries where such standards are harder to apply -- like meatpacking plants -- the agency is limited to fining employers under the general duty clause, even in cases where workers died.Management-side attorneys and former Republican OSHA officials say the general duty clause is limited and that it’s difficult legally for the agency to issue citations that rack up thousands of dollars of fines.“These cases depend on the facts,” said Ed Foulke, who led OSHA under President George W. Bush. “OSHA has to follow the rules . . .penalty amounts are determined by a formula. It's not that they can say, 'Oh we're going to hit this person for $100,000 because we're going to teach them a lesson'.”“If somebody dies at work, you would want to think that we're going to show in the penalty amounts that this person's death was worth something,” Foulke added. “But that doesn't always happen.”Democrats have questioned whether politics have played a role in the Trump administration's worker safety efforts during the pandemic.In a letter to Trump administration health officials last week, four Democrats asked why the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was "watering down" its recommendations on preventing the spread of Covid-19 at the Smithfield plant in South Dakota by adding phrases like “if feasible" and “if possible.”The lawmakers requested more explanation from the CDC on how and when "outside parties (such as Smithfield executives) are to be included in the process" of drafting safety recommendations.The pitfalls of OSHA’s decision to not issue a Covid-19 standard have been put on display the most in the meatpacking industry, where the virus has rapidly spread among factory workers.At least 63,234 workers have tested positive for Covid-19 and at least 267 have died, according to data compiled by the Food & Environment Reporting Network. The group estimates that at least 865 meatpacking and food processing plants have had confirmed cases of Covid-19.Labor Department spokesperson Megan Sweeney told POLITICO that it “conducted its investigation and issued its citation in accordance with well-established procedures and legal standards” at Smithfield and JBS and that the fines were “the maximum monetary penalty allowed by Congress.”But both the Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama administrations took a different approach when using the special enforcement power under the general duty clause, issuing multiple citations against employers that resulted in thousands of dollars in fines.In 1988, OSHA fined the same Smithfield meatpacking plant in Sioux Falls -- then owned by John Morrell & Co. -- $4.3 million for three willful violations of the general duty clause. The fines were later reduced to $990,000 in a settlement where the company agreed to set up an ergonomics program to help prevent long-term worker injuries.“It changed the industry,” said Debbie Berkowitz, who worked at the AFL-CIO during the Reagan administration and at OSHA during the Obama years. “Until then the industry had ignored the high rates of debilitating carpal tunnel which could be mitigated.”Earlier that year, OSHA also fined meatpacking company IBP Inc. under the general duty clause, proposing an initial penalty of $3.1 million. The company later agreed to pay $525,760 as part of a settlement agreement with the agency.In 2014, the Obama administration cited a Wayne Farms poultry plant for three serious violations of the general duty clause, proposing penalties of $21,000. During that period, OSHA’s maximum penalties for a serious violation were capped at $7,000; they have since been raised to $13,494.Berkowitz, now with the left-leaning National Employment Law Project, says the cases are an example of what OSHA can do without issuing a specific standard on Covid.“The administration is totally captive by an incredibly dangerous industry that [is] getting away with doing nothing to protect workers,” she said.Democrats and former OSHA officials say the worker safety agency could have done more, even with its limited enforcement powers.OSHA could have decided to levy a separate penalty for every area of the plant where workers were exposed to COVID-19, according to both Berkowitz and Michaels.In a recent letter to the Trump administration, Sens. Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker also questioned why OSHA chose to issue a single citation to each company and why the citations were classified as “serious,” as opposed to “willful” which carries a penalty of $134,937.The latest news in employment, labor and immigration politics and policy.By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.“You have elected to issue the smallest possible fine for these companies’ egregious behavior, sending a message to Smithfield, JBS, and all employers that companies won’t face any real accountability from OSHA for putting workers’ lives at risk from COVID-19,” the senators wrote in the Sept. 22 letter.OSHA is able to classify safety violations as willful if for example an employer “knows that specific steps must be taken to address a hazard but substitutes his or her judgment,” or is aware that its workplace is violating safety rules but does nothing to address it, according to OSHA’s Field Operations Manual.Democrats' latest coronavirus relief bill would require OSHA to issue an emergency temporary standard in days. With such a standard -- or mandatory rules that employers must follow to protect their workers from exposure to Covid-19 -- Michaels says “it would have been much easier and quicker to actually issue citations at these facilities.”But Republicans have been opposed, arguing that employers need room to navigate the rapidly changing health information on Covid-19. Critics of a coronavirus-specific safety standard also point to the Obama administration’s response to the H1N1 outbreak in 2009, saying the agency didn’t issue an emergency standard then.“We are still learning about this disease and we just don’t know enough information to meet the level necessary and appropriate to construct an adequate emergency temporary standard and a permanent federal regulation,” Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-Ala.), said during a committee hearing on workplace safety in May.“From SARS in the 2000s during the Bush administration to MERS, H1N1 influenza and Ebola during the Obama administration, OSHA didn’t issue a new standard but, instead, enforced existing standards and issued guidance,” he said.But there is a major difference in how the Obama and Trump administrations directed their safety inspectors to police workplaces during health crises.During the H1N1 pandemic, the Obama administration published a lengthy document instructing inspectors to only consider the safety measures taken by an employer as adequate if they were as protective as CDC’s guidelines for the health care industry.By comparison, when employers aren’t following the CDC guidelines during the Covid-19 outbreak, the Trump administration has instructed its inspectors to “consider whether employees are exposed to a recognized hazard” and “whether there are feasible means to abate that hazard” before issuing a citation.© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy Policy2020 ELECTIONSVoting rights advocates warn that suppression efforts in the final weeks of the election threaten the voting blocks Democrats need most.Poll workers at the Miami-Dade County Elections Department deposit peoples' mail-in ballots into an official ballot drop box. | Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesBy MAYA KING10/06/2020 04:30 AM EDTDemocrats are running out of time to protect the voters they need the most.As Election Day nears, Democrats are scrambling to counter disinformation campaigns, complicated absentee ballot requirements and consolidated polling locations. All of which they say threaten the groups Joe Biden can't win without in November: Black and Latino voters.AdvertisementEfforts to shore up their votes involve a combination of lawsuits to prevent disenfranchisement and a messaging blitz to encourage voters to have a plan should they encounter trouble at the ballot box.Since kicking off their campaign with Michelle Obama’s remarks at the national convention in August, Democrats have been deploying state party chairs, PAC leaders and high-profile Biden surrogates to send out a strong message. They’re encouraging voters to cast their mail-in ballots as soon as possible and be mindful of voter registration deadlines in their respective states. In the wake of Trump’s attacks on the U.S. Postal Service, they’ve shifted tactics, incorporating early and in-person options to their voter guidance.There's reason for concern. According to findings from a data leak first reported by the British Channel 4 news, in 2016, the Trump campaign targeted 3.5 million Black voters in a widespread, data-based form of voter suppression. And now voting rights advocates are girding for a repeat.At the start of the pandemic, states across the country shut down. When there was resurgence over the summer, several governors reinstituted those shutdowns. But now, as the Midwest sees another spike in cases, state leaders aren’t doing much.It’s one reason why liberals are worried that, despite national polls showing the Democratic nominee ahead of Donald Trump, voter suppression tactics could undermine his lead in battleground states.“This has been the fear, and this has been what we’re raising our voices about,” Rashad Robinson, president of the civil rights group, Color of Change, told POLITICO. “We are facing a tax that we can’t always see until they’ve hurt us,” he said, referencing poll taxes that once kept African Americans from voting. (Color of Change has endorsed Biden.)Democrats are fighting back with a barrage of litigation to combat policies that could inhibit a fair and complete count, with some success. In recent weeks, several courts have ruled in favor of liberal groups seeking expanded access to the polls during the pandemic. Meanwhile, a handful of swing states including North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin have extended their mail-in ballot deadlines to days after the election.But while courts have viewed most Republicans’ claims of voter fraud with skepticism, they’ve also been reluctant to change laws Democrats argue are unjust.Skeptics contend claims of voter suppression are used to score political points. Issues at the ballot box, they say, are the result of disorganized election officials, rather than something more insidious.“These discussions of voter disenfranchisement, voter suppression are overwrought, just like discussion of voter fraud is overwrought,” said Ilya Shapiro, director of the Cato Institute’s Center for Constitutional Studies. “It's kind of [like] throwing political red meat.”Voting rights experts say efforts to limit access to the polls challenge trust in the election process and diminish voter enthusiasm. And research has shown Black and Latino voters face more barriers to voting than others. According to a 2017 study published by the Journal of Politics, strict voter identification laws “do, in fact, substantially alter the makeup of who votes and ultimately do skew democracy in favor of whites and those on the political right.”People wait in line to vote in Georgia's Primary Election on June 9, 2020 in Atlanta. | Elijah Nouvelage/Getty ImagesMore election-related lawsuits have been filed this year than in the last two decades, according to the Stanford-MIT Healthy Elections Project, which is tracking the cases. These suits, filed in nearly all 50 states, challenge voter ID laws, polling place consolidations, widespread purges from the rolls and multistep absentee ballot processes. Lawsuits have snowballed in response to the coronavirus, with an increase of more than 300 cases since the beginning of the pandemic, the Stanford-MIT database shows.Some primary elections held at the height of the virus’ spread in the United States were plagued by last-minute polling place changes and closures as well as long wait times. Voting rights advocates point to the complicated primary elections in Georgia and Wisconsin as a warning sign that Covid-19 could expedite efforts to limit turnout among Black and Latino voters, who have been disproportionately harmed by the virus.Still, Democrats say they're encouraged by a handful of wins in the courts. On Sept. 28, a U.S. district judge in Georgia ordered state election officials to prepare paper copies of voter registration and absentee voting information for each of the state's polling places, should problems arise with their digital voting system on Election Day.Also last month, a Nevada judge dismissed a case filed by Trump’s reelection campaign that tried to bar the state from mailing ballots to all active voters. Early voting in the state begins on Oct. 17.In other states, however, Democrats had mixed results. A 2015 Wisconsin law requiring voters to present photo IDs to vote drew seven separate lawsuits from groups in the state, according to a tracker from the Brennan Center for Justice.The lawsuit alleges the law, which does not count student IDs alone as a valid form of identification, is a violation of voters’ 14th Amendment rights to vote unburdened. That law was upheld by a federal judge on Wednesday, who ruled changing it would cause unnecessary confusion so close to the election.In 2018, the Florida electorate voted overwhelmingly for Amendment 4, which restored voting rights to as many as 1.4 million formerly incarcerated people. But earlier this month, Florida’s Supreme Court ruled that people with former felony convictions could vote only if they paid all their fines, court debts and fees. The ruling, which would keep hundreds of thousands of returning citizens from being able to vote, was a major blow to voting rights advocates, who view the requirement as a poll tax.“Our government is supposed to be seeking ways to expand democracy, to make sure that all of its citizens have a very unencumbered pathway to being able to participate in elections,” said Desmond Meade, executive director of the Florida Voting Rights Restoration Coalition, which led the movement to pass Amendment 4.“They should not be seeking ways to restrict that. And when they do that, they're really breaking a contract with people,” Meade continued. “They're supposed to provide this access. They're supposed to want to create a more inclusive democracy.”Outside of the courts, efforts to keep dissuade voters from casting a ballot still loom.One automated call in Illinois, sponsored by right-wing hoaxer Jacob Wohl, used paranoia to discourage Black voters from mailing in their ballots. In the call, a woman’s voice can be heard telling voters their personal information would be added to a public database and that they could be arrested for outstanding warrants or be forced to participate in Covid-19 vaccine trials.“Don’t be finessed into giving your private information to 'the man,'” the woman says. “Stay safe and beware of vote by mail.”On Thursday, Michigan's attorney general charged Wohl and Jack Burkman, another conservative operative, with felonies in an alleged robocall scheme to suppress the vote.Voters wait in line on the first day of early voting for the upcoming Nevada Democratic presidential caucus. | Ethan Miller/Getty ImagesVoting rights advocates point to Georgia’s 2018 gubernatorial race as an example of egregious abuses of power at the polls. Brian Kemp, the Republican nominee for governor, refused to step down from his role as secretary of state before the election and was widely criticized for his role in aiding his own victory. Kemp beat Democratic candidate Stacey Abrams by under 55,000 votes, a margin within striking distance of a runoff.This year, the state’s June primary election was plagued by many of the issues voting rights activists argue are suppression methods: malfunctioning voting machines, late opening times at polling sites and long wait times that kept some voters from casting votes at all. Many said those polling problems foreshadow voter disenfranchisement tactics that could take place across the country in November.“I'm afraid that people have learned the wrong lessons from the past,” said Nse Ufot, CEO of the New Georgia Project, an organization founded by Stacey Abrams in 2013 that aims to register voters in Georgia.“There's this air of, 'Is this really happening? Are they really attacking the United States Postal Service? Are they really taking those blue mailboxes from street corners in the midst of a global pandemic, when we know the majority of Americans want to have a vote-by-mail option? Is the president really telling people in North Carolina to vote twice?'"Yes.”Lauren Groh-Wargo, president of Fair Fight Action, an organization founded following Georgia’s gubernatorial election, said her group sued the state of Georgia to prevent a repeat of the 2018 election in November. Fair Fight filed suit almost immediately after Abrams’ loss. The idea was to curb racial discrimination at the polls and halt the inaccurate removal of qualified voters from the rolls, she said. The group continues to support legal efforts in other states to ensure that voters who do mail in their ballots will have them counted.“It tends to be African American and Latino voters and Asian American voters who have their ballots disproportionately rejected in the absentee ballot process,” she said, “But there's work going on to make sure voters understand how their ballots are getting counted and to create protections for mail in ballots to get counted.”Yet, some advocates argue while the Democrats' fight to keep voters informed is important, it may not be enough to protect and galvanize the voters most at risk. Rev. William Barber, an activist and co-chair of the Poor People’s Campaign, said that without the policies in place to both generate enthusiasm among low-income voters and enfranchise them at the polls, Democrats risk low turnout among key groups.“This is the season where Democrats need to be strong and aggressive against suppression,” Barber said. “They also need to re-focus and address the issues of systemic racism and poverty that impacts Black, white and brown people.”© 2020 POLITICO LLCTRADEThe monthly deficit in U.S. goods trade with all other countries set a record high in August at more than $83 billion.Trump has blamed the trade deficit on bad trade deals negotiated by his predecessors and unfair trade practices by other countries, but most economists disagree with that explanation. | AP Photo/Alex BrandonBy DOUG PALMER10/06/2020 02:00 PM EDTUpdated: 10/06/2020 02:40 PM EDTAs President Donald Trump enters the final month of his reelection campaign, it's increasingly clear that he has failed at one of the signature goals of his presidency: reducing the U.S. trade deficit.And critics of his trade policy argue Trump's "magical thinking" created little chance for success.AdvertisementNew figures out Tuesday show the U.S. trade gap is on track to exceed $600 billion this year. That would be the highest since 2008, just before the global financial crisis.The monthly deficit in U.S. goods trade with all other countries set a record high in August at more than $83 billion.Trump has blamed the trade deficit on bad trade deals negotiated by his predecessors and unfair trade practices by other countries, but most economists disagree with that explanation."We have almost an $800 billion a year trade deficit with other nations," Trump said in November 2017, after returning from his first trip to Asia as president. "Unacceptable. We are going to start whittling that down and as fast as possible."In those 2017 comments, Trump seemed to be referring to just the goods trade deficit while ignoring the surplus the U.S. enjoys in services trade. The combined goods and services deficit in 2017 was $514 billion, reflecting a nearly $800 billion goods deficit as well as a $286 billion services surplus. This year, the goods trade deficit is likely to exceed $850 billion.The trade deficit measures the difference between what the U.S. imports and exports. The powerful U.S. economy sucks up goods from around the world, resulting in an annual trade deficit that has grown dramatically from a mere $6 billion in 1975.A variety of factors contributed to Trump’s failure to eliminate the trade gap, which White House trade adviser Peter Navarro predicted in 2016 could be erased in one or two years.Overall trade remains depressed compared to year-ago levels because of the coronavirus pandemic.But the massive U.S. government stimulus payments to businesses and consumers have helped U.S. imports recover faster than U.S. exports. That explains why the monthly goods deficit has increased from the average level of $73.3 billion in 2019.However, even without the pandemic, Trump’s practice of piling tariffs on China and selected other products like steel and aluminum was never going to turn around the deficit, most economists agree.“Short-term fixes like tariffs don’t work,” said Mary Lovely, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics and professor of economics at Syracuse University. “It’s magical thinking.”The large U.S. trade deficit is fundamentally driven by larger economic factors — like the fact Americans spend more than they save and have to borrow from abroad to finance the difference, Lovely said.Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut in 2017 contributed to that problem by running up the U.S. budget deficit. This year, Congress has approved more than $3 trillion in additional spending to help the U.S. economy recover from the coronavirus pandemic, tripling the budget deficit to $3.3 trillion and pulling the trade deficit along, she said.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. | Anna Moneymaker/The New York Times via AP, PoolU.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, in a statement on Tuesday, defended the administration's trade actions and attributed this year's rise in the deficit to the strength of the U.S. recovery from the pandemic and investors buying gold as a hedge against the crisis."In spite of the pandemic, our goods deficit is down 2.4 percent year-to-date," Lighthizer said. "The goods deficit would have decreased by at least 6 percent but for a large spike in gold imports reflecting risk-hedging strategies during the pandemic, not underlying economics."He said a 19-percent fall so far this year in the U.S. services surplus due largely to reduced tourism, travel and transport also helped widen the overall deficit. "As other countries recover and reopen, we expect both imports and exports to improve substantially," Lighthizer said.Still, although Trump failed to reduce the overall trade deficit, his tariffs helped change the composition of the deficit, which is important, said Michael Stumo, chief executive of the Coalition for a Prosperous America, a Trump-friendly trade group.Looking at trade in 2019, the last full year of data, the overall U.S. trade deficit fell by less than 1 percent from the previous year to $577 billion. However, the bilateral trade deficit with China fell by a much more impressive 17 percent to $345 billion as importers turned to other countries such as Mexico, Vietnam, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan and members of the EU.Imports also supplied a slightly smaller share of U.S. demand for manufactured goods in 2019 as measured by CPA’s “reshoring index” which fell to 30.6 percent, from 31.2 percent in 2018.That may seem like a tiny change, but the U.S. consumed about $7.1 trillion worth of manufactured goods in 2019. So even a small increase in the U.S. share of that market can help create thousands of new jobs, Stumo said.But for Trump to fundamentally reduce the trade deficit, he needed to address misaligned currency rates because the strong dollar makes it hard for U.S. exporters to compete against other suppliers, Stumo said.On that front, he ran into opposition from Wall Street money houses, who fear any aggressive moves to deal with currency because it hurts their bottom line, he said.“A huge, excessively high part of our economy is finance and they'll fight it,” Stumo said. “We'd like finance to be strong, but just not that big a part of our economy. We need a little bit more goods production.”Trump’s “phase one” trade deal with China does contain a chapter which, for the first time in any trade agreement, contains enforceable rules against currency manipulation. While some trade experts worry that could open the door for renewed U.S. trade actions against China, others see the pact as more of a fig leaf.“We would say one of the big failures of the Trump administration with respect to trade policy is the failure to address currency misalignment in any kind of meaningful way,” said Thea Lee, president of the Economic Policy Institute, a left-leaning think tank aligned with union groups. “Putting a couple of sentences into the deal, but without a clear road map as to how it's going to be instrumentalized, doesn't really do very much.”Lee also faults Trump for failing to pass a huge new infrastructure bill to create more jobs in the United States, as he promised during his 2016 campaign, and for approving a set of tax reforms “that took us in exactly the wrong direction by incentivizing and accelerating offshoring.”Trump’s revised NAFTA agreement with Mexico and Canada does include strong protections for workers rights, which helped the pact win overwhelming approval in the Democratic-controlled House. But the fact that labor concerns were not addressed in the China agreement “just shows that the Trump administration is not driven by any principles in this area, but simply by political expediency,” Lee said.The administration hails China's agreement as part of the phase one trade deal to purchase $200 billion more of U.S. goods and services in 2020 and 2021, compared with the record it set in 2017.But the data released on Tuesday shows that China is well behind on that goal. During the first eight months of this year, it had imported just $69.5 billion worth of U.S. farm and manufactured goods, compared to $80.2 billion in the same period in 2017.U.S. farmers were hit so hard by Trump’s tariff war with China that his administration doled out more than $20 billion in emergency aid payments to help cushion the blow.U.S. farm exports to China had reached as high as $25 billion annually a few years before Trump was elected. But they plummeted to $6.8 billion in fiscal 2019 after Beijing retaliated against Trump’s tariffs by raising its own duties on U.S. farm exports.Now, even with the purchase commitments contained in the phase one trade deal, USDA forecasts farm exports to China in the current fiscal year that began on Oct. 1 at just $18.5 billion. That's below the $21.8 billion during Trump’s first year in office.POLITICO NEWSLETTERSA speed read on global trade news — weekday mornings, in your inbox.By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.The U.S. agricultural trade surplus, long a point of pride for farmers, has also dwindled under Trump. It is projected this fiscal year at just $4.5 billion, down from $21.1 billion in fiscal 2017.Even some longtime China hawks fault Trump’s handling of trade.The president’s decision to take Beijing on by himself, instead of working with allies such as the European Union and Japan, meant that the phase one trade deal failed to address many of the most serious concerns about China’s trade practices, said Mike Wessel, who has served on the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review, a watchdog panel created by Congress, since it began in the early 2000s.“We certainly have to advance U.S. interests, but it'd be a lot better and more productive if we did it together,” Wessel said.Trump also failed to implement domestic policies that would encourage production of manufactured goods in the United States, instead of other countries, Wessel argued.“China has an integrated structure to achieve the goals laid out in its ‘Made in China 2025’ plan. It’s a holistic whole of government approach. We don't have anything comparable,” Wessel said.© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy Policy10/06/2020 11:50 AM EDT10/06/20 10:50 AM EDT10/06/20 06:37 PM EDT10/06/20 03:34 PM EDT10/06/20 01:42 PM EDT10/06/20 11:50 AM EDT10/06/20 10:50 AM EDT10/05/20 08:17 PM EDT10/05/20 07:21 PM EDT10/05/20 04:57 PM EDT© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy Policy2020With 28 days until the election, it’s time to inch out on a limb.President Donald Trump arrives to speak at a campaign rally on Sept. 8, 2020, in Winston-Salem, N.C. | AP Photo/Evan VucciBy TIM ALBERTA10/06/2020 04:29 AM EDTTim Alberta is chief political correspondent at Politico Magazine.The presidential debates have begun, millions of early votes have already been cast and Election Day is right around the corner. That can only mean one thing: Pundits and prognosticators are about to start making bold predictions about who wins the presidency.Not me. Not yet, anyway.AdvertisementThere’s no question that President Donald Trump is losing; that former Vice President Joe Biden holds the high ground. Still, if the 2016 election taught us anything, it’s that election forecasts aren’t worth the paper (or web space) they’re printed on—especially forecasts relating to Trump. The man has defied gravity too many times, escaped too many near-death political experiences for anyone to feel confident in prophesying his demise.We are at a stage of the race, however, when reporters should feel confident unloading their notebook and sharing their hunches and strongly held suspicions. Having spent the past year working to reconcile two spheres of reporting—on the ground with voters, and inside the campaigns with party officials—I’m comfortable that enough dots have been connected to offer my fundamental impressions about this race.What follows are not ironclad assertions of realities to come; with Trump fighting Covid-19, the economy slowly unraveling and the political climate growing more volatile by the minute, there is no telling what might yet happen to upend the race. Rather, what I’m sharing today are, to borrow from the great NFL writer Peter King, four things I think I think about the 2020 election.Naturally, there was some chatter over the weekend that the president’s Covid-19 diagnosis might engender sympathy for him, humanizing a man who strains to conceal his vulnerabilities and project machismo to the masses. That dynamic could very well be in play. But from what I’ve seen, it will be washed out—if not overtaken—by an alternative reaction to the spectacle unfolding around Trump’s illness: fatigue.It’s impossible to quantify how tired Americans are of this presidency. But it’s a constant theme in the conversations I have with voters, including die-hard Trump supporters. They feel trapped inside a reality TV show and are powerless to change the channel. They want a break, even if they don’t want a new program.This exhaustion has ebbed and flowed during the Trump era. It’s no coincidence that his lowest approval ratings have correlated with incidents of saturation news coverage, such as the Charlottesville protests and the release of the Mueller report. The president’s advisers have long believed that people are most likely to view him favorably when they’re not seeing or hearing him; that his absence from their everyday lives, in effect, makes voters’ hearts grow fonder.Unfortunately for them, the past few days have featured the highest drama of the past four years. Even when stricken with a lethal disease, Trump could not abide disappearing from the headlines; this is the gift he cannot bring himself to give. It’s not that voters will punish the president for becoming infected; it’s that voters, weary of their social media feeds and kitchen table conversations being dominated by Trump, may resent that he turned a sympathetic situation into yet another showcase of administrative incompetence and self-celebrating bravado.Which leads me to…People who love the president are vocal about it. People who hate the president are vocal about it. The polarization on display this election cycle is the most palpable, the most visible, of our lifetimes. People wave flags from their porches and wear shirts to the grocery store and turn out by thousands to rallies and marches. I don’t believe there is a “silent majority”—that is, a group whose views are kept quiet—for either Trump or Biden.I do believe, however, there is a silent majority against Trump. In my travels, this group could be considered “the kid curmudgeons.” They are younger Gen Xers and older millennials: college-educated folks ages roughly 28 to 42, who are not ideological, who are not partisan, who consume little political news, who rarely if ever vote, but who might flood the polls this fall simply because Donald Trump annoys them.THE FRIDAY COVERBY ANNA GRONEWOLDIs that overly simplistic? Perhaps. But I’ve been stunned at how many people I’ve encountered who fit this description. They’re establishing careers, starting families, buying first homes—building a life—and don’t really have the time or inclination to get engaged politically. They don’t know a ton about either party’s policy platform or legislative record. What they do know is Trump irritates them to no end. He reminds them of the lightweight underclassmen at a college kegger; his raucousness was entertaining at first, but the act has worn awfully thin. They just want to get rid of him and get on with the party.Thanks to new voting laws in numerous states—laws that permit more voters to request and cast absentee ballots—we always expected that in-person voting rates on Election Day would plunge to record lows. That was before Covid-19.Now, the combination of the pandemic and the looser regulations all but guarantees a surge of absentee voting unlike anything we’ve ever witnessed. And that’s fine: Despite what the president says, there is no evidence of absentee ballots being especially susceptible to fraud or manipulation. What are absentee ballots especially susceptible to? Disqualification. Every election cycle, many thousands of absentee ballots are rejected because they fail to meet certain criteria: They are not signed, or properly sealed, or they arrive too late. (This year alone, a neck-snapping 550,000 ballots were disqualified during the presidential primaries, according to an analysis by NPR.) Because Democrats are far likelier to vote absentee than are Republicans, the problem is uniquely daunting for Biden. In Pennsylvania alone, there are estimates that a new law requiring mail ballots be placed inside of two envelopes—a privacy envelope containing the ballot, tucked inside an outer envelope—could result in the disqualification of 100,000 votes. Remember: Trump’s margin of victory in Pennsylvania in 2016 was roughly 44,000 votes.OPINION | 2020BY DERRICK JOHNSONDemocrats had good reason to promote absentee voting during the early stages of the Covid-19 crisis. But with much of society now resuming daily routines in a socially distant manner, and with Dr. Anthony Fauci declaring that in-person voting is safe, it seems Democrats have exposed themselves to unnecessary political risk with the push for absentee voting. Not only are these ballots at risk for disqualification; they will clog up the counting processes in states like Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, where absentee votes can’t be opened until Election Day. It obviously isn’t the Democratic Party’s fault that Trump is threatening to reject the results of the 2020 election. Nevertheless, knowing that a sound victory on Election Night is the surest way to prevent any shenanigans from the sitting president—and knowing that a protracted count over several weeks could easily fuel conspiracy theories and possibly even spark civil unrest—it would behoove Democratic leaders to urge their constituents to vote in-person if at all possible.Stop me if you’ve heard this before: The president has a problem with female voters. Yes, this has been observed by every pollster, every political professional, in both parties over the past four years. Trump has been briefed on it—time and again—by his team, who warned him that the 2018 Democratic wave could repeat itself without a course correction. But what we’re seeing now, in polling conducted by both parties, isn’t a wave. It isn’t even a tsunami. It’s something we don’t have a name for, because we’ve never seen anything like it. The president’s standing with women voters of every race, every educational background, every socioeconomic stratum, has fallen off. But when it comes to the white, college-educated women who made up a sizable chunk of Trump’s base—he won 44 percent of them against Hillary Clinton—his numbers have collapsed entirely.2020BY TIM ALBERTAThe president, seeing ominous signs of this earlier in the year, sought to scare these voters back into his camp, warning of an assault on the suburbs and violence visiting their families and communities. But this tactic appears to have backfired. Recent internal polling from Republicans and Democrats alike suggests that Trump’s law-and-order messaging alienated far more women than it attracted.This isn’t just a problem for Trump in purple states. Last week, I heard from one of the smartest Republicans alive, a longtime party operator who lives in a state Trump carried by double digits. He told me the polling he was seeing there was something out of a nightmare; these were numbers he never expected to see in his lifetime. The only thing more dizzying than that? I had another conversation, with another dependable red-state Republican, the very next day, and heard the very same thing. Both of these men were sounding the alarm, alerting me that Trump could actually lose their states, and would at the very least drag down a number of down-ballot Republicans, because women have turned on the GOP at a historic clip. Trump lost women by 13 points to Clinton, according to exit polls, and Republicans have long worried that the figure could climb into the high teens. There is now genuine worry that the margin could explode north of 20 points—the biggest gender gap in modern election history.© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy PolicyOPINION | ON THE BENCHAn even-numbered court would probably be more functional and less divided.The seat of the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is draped in black cloth. | Photo by Fred Schilling/Collection of the Supreme Court of the United States via Getty ImagesBy ANTHONY MARCUM and JAMES WALLNER10/06/2020 04:30 AM EDTAnthony Marcum is a fellow for the Governance Project at the R Street Institute.James Wallner is a senior fellow at the R Street Institute. Previously, he was a Senate aide and a former group vice president for research at the Heritage Foundation.Republican efforts to confirm a third Supreme Court justice in President Trump’s first term have reignited the debate over whether it’s time to reform the nation’s highest court. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s passing has opened a gusher of proposals, ranging from court-packing to term limits.Reformers from both ends of the political spectrum may disagree on exactly what’s wrong with the Supreme Court, but they often agree on this: that the court is tasked with resolving too many of our political disputes and that both Congress and the White House have become over-reliant on it. Yet, since both parties also disagree with how to reform it, the court has been pulled into our politics and campaigns more and more every cycle.AdvertisementSo here’s a counterintuitive idea: Let’s keep the court to an even number of justices—say, eight.Common sense might suggest that an odd number is better because it’s harder for the court to tie. But we think an even number—one chief justice, and seven associate justices—would actually be better for a bunch of reasons: It would curb its political interventions, make it more likely to rule on narrower grounds and encourage more compromise. Last, but not least, it would also be the easiest reform idea to implement while causing the least amount of harm to the third branch.And now, with a rash of Covid-19 diagnoses disrupting plans to swiftly confirm Amy Coney Barrett to Ginsburg’s seat, there’s an opportunity for Republicans to stop the rush and ask: Could eight justices be enough?As it happens, an even-numbered Supreme Court was good enough for the Founders and the first Congress. The Constitution does not specify how many justices should serve on the Supreme Court; it is up to Congress to determine the number. The very first Congress created a six-person court (one chief justice and five associate justices) when it passed the Judiciary Act of 1789.The court’s path from six justices to nine was not a straight one. Two years after the nation’s first Judiciary Act, President John Adams and his Federalist allies shifted the court from six justices to five. Soon after, President Thomas Jefferson and Republicans returned the court’s size to six justices. Congress added a seventh justice in 1807. Congress again expanded the size of the court to nine justices 30 years later and to 10 justices during the Civil War. After the war, Congress reduced the court’s size to nine justices—where it stands today.The Founders, and members of the first Congress, like Alexander Hamilton and James Madison, would not be familiar with our reliance on today’s nine-member Supreme Court to resolve our most controversial issues. In Federalist 78, Hamilton observed of the court that it “is beyond comparison the weakest” of the three federal branches. Why? Unlike Congress which “commands the purse” and the Executive Branch that “holds the sword of the community,” the judiciary has “neither force nor will, but merely judgment.”The Founders envisioned that the place where public policy would be debated and decided was Congress. Instead, these days policy is all too often planted in Executive Branch agencies with insignificant oversight or review. Political expediency and the fear of difficult votes is often the catalyst for Congress to give presidents growing emergency powers and foreign policy authorities.And when a conflict does arise between the two political branches, each is eager to run to the judiciary, the designated apolitical branch, to resolve their differences. The political branches’ eagerness to solve disputes in the courtroom often puts the Supreme Court in an untenable position. Today, a decision by the court on any controversy with a legal hook evokes criticism and questions about its legitimacy. Similarly, the court’s refusal to consider certain political controversies stirs similar outcries.In this light, an even-numbered court might save the judiciary while also saving our politics.To begin with, it would be much easier to implement an even-numbered court than it would be to enact term limits. Like past Judiciary Acts, it would take a simple act from Congress. Term limits, on the other hand, as many of its proponents concede, would require amending the Constitution. Term limits could take decades to fully implement.Court-packing is even more troublesome. Although it would require only legislation to expand the Supreme Court, doing so would invite nearly immediate political retribution. Like the elimination of the filibuster for judicial nominees, it is not difficult to see how Senate Democrats pushing for an 11-member Supreme Court would soon balloon to a 13-member Court once Republicans retake political control.Importantly, an even-numbered court does what other plans do not: Takes more political controversies away from the court and gives them back to the political branches where they belong. In the case of a 4-4 tie, the court issues no substantive opinion, effectively affirming the judgment of the court below. The case does not set a nationwide legal precedent, and the law is the same as it was the day before.Despite potential political frustration with an even-numbered court, much would actually stay the same. Contrary to popular belief, unanimous (or nearly unanimous) decisions are far more common than 5-4 decisions. Looking at the Supreme Court’s most recent term, only 23 percent of its cases were 5-4, compared with 66 percent that were either 9-0, 8-1 or 7-2. This is similar to past court terms, as the percentage of 5-4 decisions since 2005 is 21 percent.Further, every justice agrees with the others more than they disagree. Even Justice Clarence Thomas—considered by some the most conservative member of the court—agreed with the late Justice Ginsburg over 60 percent of the time in the past term. That means most of an eight-member court’s work would stay the same, and the great majority of its cases would be resolved just as before.In cases that might ideologically suggest a tie, to avoid nonresolution, an even-numbered court may be motivated to gain consensus by tailoring rulings more narrowly, which would avoid more wide-reaching, controversial decisions. How the court functioned soon after Justice Scalia’s passing may serve as a clue to how it might function with eight members. At the time, Chief Justice Roberts remarked, “we spend a fair amount of time—maybe a little more than others in the past—talking about things, talking them out. It sometimes brings you a bit closer together.”For legal cynics, an even-numbered court also presents a sound strategy: Those who compromise win; those who don’t lose. Justices able to seek more consensus and agreement will see more success than justices who refuse to find a common legal ground.The way we think about the judiciary has changed. The years of confirming justices by over 90 votes—as the Senate did for the late Justice Ginsburg in 1993—may be a wistful memory. If we must reform the court, let’s do so in a way that helps rebalance our teetering separation of powers system.© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy PolicyTo support and inform our journalism, it helps to learn more about you.This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy PolicyNBC's Monday night event with the Democratic nominee was a town hall in name only.Biden did his best to explain why age and experience matter, at least on the campaign trail, and closed with an appeal that probably won the young man’s vote, assuming it hadn’t happened already. | Andrew Harnik/AP PhotoBy MARC CAPUTO10/06/2020 11:53 AM EDTUpdated: 10/06/2020 05:26 PM EDTMIAMI — NBC gave prime-time treatment to Joe Biden Monday night in a “town hall” that featured undecided voters in Miami.But the voters hardly sounded undecided.AdvertisementTheir questions were good. But they were also gentle and sympathetic. And it appeared they were more undecided about whether to cast a ballot at all; if they do, it’s clear whom many favored to start with.This was a Biden-leaning crowd, if not a Biden crowd.So Biden had the equivalent of a one-hour infomercial that played to his strengths: engaging with respectful real voters (he’s been known to blow his stack with citizens who attack him) as he dished out anecdotes and one-liners accrued over decades in public life.The location of the event and dynamics of the race all but guaranteed that going in.First off, Miami is in a Democratic-leaning county in the state’s biggest blue region, Southeast Florida. Then there’s the phenomenon in which undecided voters break to the challenger (though some dispute this “incumbent rule”).Finally, there's the screening process. Good campaigns make it clear to TV networks that their candidates aren’t going to walk into an ambush, so the network makes sure to screen out fringe figures and/or, in this case, people who have a clear anti-Biden agenda.This was not a real Miami town hall. Those would have a lot more screaming. This was a television show, just like the presidential debates, the next of which is scheduled to be in Miami and is a town hall-style format.Biden’s campaign was understandably high-fiving last night at his televised performance in the battleground state. The unstated contrast with Donald Trump was glaring: The president vainly posted a social media video of him returning to the White House to recover from Covid-19, telling people not to fear a disease that caused him to be hospitalized and pumped with experimental therapies by some of the nation’s top doctors.The closest thing to a tough question for Biden came from a woman who was introduced as “undecided but leaning toward Biden” and was concerned about last Tuesday’s debate.
“President Trump was bullying you. And I'm worried that it knocked you off your game,” she said.“Well, I'm used to bullies. I used to stutter when I was a kid. I learned how to fight,” Biden responded, giving an oft-repeated line on the campaign trail.POLITICO NEWSLETTERSUnpacking the national conventions and the race for the White House.By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.Biden went on to criticize Trump’s widely panned debate performance, in which he constantly interrupted and insulted the Democrat. NBC moderator Lester Holt applied a little pressure, noting that Biden swung back at Trump.“You called him a clown, a fool. You told him to shut up,” he said. “It seemed to go against some of the language you have said about not being divisive. Do you regret any part — on your part?"Biden acknowledged he got frustrated: “I should have said this is a clownish undertaking, instead of calling him a clown.”As for standing up to world leaders, Biden said he’s done that. And even Vladimir Putin didn’t make a scene like Trump.“I don't have somebody screaming at me in the next podium when I'm meeting with a world leader,” Biden said.Later Tuesday, The Washington Free Beacon, a conservative news site, reported that three of the questioners at the town hall had previously expressed at least measured support for Biden — or criticism of Trump — in appearances on sister network MSNBC.Biden also fielded questions from:• A pediatric nurse who bashed the government’s “dysfunctional and disorganized” Covid-19 response. That’s a pillar of Biden’s campaign.• An “undecided Republican” who wanted to know how he would lead during a pandemic. Biden turned the topic to masks again, and bashed the “macho” folks against them.• A Republican Latina who voted for Hillary Clinton but has a law enforcement family and was concerned about the “defund the police” movement. Biden is opposed to that (though he forgot to say it) and made sure to praise police, condemn violence and called for better police training and use-of-force reforms.• A Black woman understandably scared about the rise in violent white supremacists. This was right in Biden’s wheelhouse as well, having launched his campaign by attacking Trump’s comments about “very fine people on both sides” of the Charlottesville protests.• A man who “voted for Hillary Clinton four years ago but has voted Republican in the past” asked about unity. That’s been such a hallmark of Biden’s campaign that a super PAC backing him is called “Unite the Country.”• Another man was concerned that Cuban-American and Venezuelan voters are being told Biden is a socialist and wanted to know what to tell his friends and family to push back on it. Biden, dressed in a tailored suit, said, “Do I look like a socialist?” He then reminded the voter that he beat Bernie Sanders and that some Democrats complained he was too moderate.The final question came from a young man who pointed out there was a 56-year age gap between them and wanted to know how Biden could relate. Biden did his best to explain why age and experience matter, at least on the campaign trail, and closed with an appeal that probably won the young man’s vote, assuming it hadn’t happened already.“You're the best-educated, you're the most open, you're the least prejudiced generation in American history,” Biden said. “The future is yours, and I'm counting on you.”© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy PolicyA majority of likely voters surveyed, 57 percent, prefer Biden, while 41 percent favor Trump.Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden. | Andrew Harnik/AP PhotoBy QUINT FORGEY10/06/2020 07:32 AM EDTDemocratic presidential nominee Joe Biden has a 16-point lead over President Donald Trump among likely voters nationwide, according to a new survey released less than a month from Election Day.A CNN poll published Tuesday reports that a majority of likely voters surveyed, 57 percent, prefer Biden, while 41 percent favor Trump. The previous version of the same poll, conducted in late August and early September, did not survey likely voters but showed Biden with an 8-point lead among registered voters, 51-43 percent.AdvertisementThe latest CNN poll was conducted last Thursday through Sunday, after the first presidential debate last Tuesday night and mostly after Trump’s public announcement last Friday that he had tested positive for Covid-19. He was discharged from Walter Reed National Military Medical Center and returned to the White House on Monday evening.The general election campaign has remained remarkably steady in recent months despite numerous major news events and historic upheaval in American life, including the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and anti-racism protests that have swept the country.Still, Biden had consistently notched high-single-digit or low-double-digit leads over Trump, while also maintaining advantages in several swing states. As of Tuesday morning, Biden was ahead of Trump by 8.5 points nationally, according to a RealClearPolitics average of general election polling conducted from Sept. 21-Oct. 4.Although Biden’s national edge is eye-popping, pollsters have lent greater credence to surveys of individual states in the closing weeks of the race. Those statewide polls of a handful of battlegrounds are believed to be more determinative of the Electoral College outcome.Most political analysts predicted former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton would capture the White House in 2016 based on the strength of her national polling. Although she did win the popular vote, Trump won the Electoral College and emerged victorious after narrowly flipping a group of Midwestern swing states and some other battlegrounds.The CNN poll was conducted by SSRS from Oct. 1-4, surveying 1,001 likely voters with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy Policy2020 ELECTIONSHarrison's campaign has posted massive fundraising numbers in his election battle against Lindsey Graham.By CAITLIN OPRYSKO10/06/2020 11:09 AM EDTHouse Majority Whip Jim Clyburn is bullish on his former protégé’s chances of flipping one of South Carolina’s Senate seats blue in November and ousting Lindsey Graham from Congress, he said Tuesday.“Not a single soul alive believed when he announced for the Senate that he would be sitting here 30 days out, 48-48,” the South Carolina Democrat said of Jaime Harrison, who polls have shown tied or within striking distance of Graham in recent weeks.AdvertisementIn an interview with POLITICO Playbook authors Anna Palmer and Jake Sherman, Clyburn attributed the unexpectedly tight race to the “class act” of a campaign Harrison has run, saying he was "proud" of his former staffer.Though Harrison, who Clyburn joked “came into my life as an 11th grader” and who he had not been able to “get rid of … since,” remains the underdog in ruby-red South Carolina, his campaign has posted massive fundraising numbers in recent months. That has helped Harrison catch up with Graham, one of Trump’s biggest critics who became one of his closest allies in Congress.“I think things are breaking in his favor. If we get the kind of turnout that we’ve been working on in South Carolina,” Clyburn said Tuesday, “Jaime is going to win that race.”While Clyburn reiterated that “I think it has a lot to do with how good he’s run the campaign,” he posited that “it also has a lot to do with the hypocrisy of Lindsey Graham — too many people are sick and tired of this kind of stuff.”The congressman pointed to the battle raging over Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett and Republicans’ pledge to push her through days before the election.As chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee, which will take up Barrett’s nomination beginning Monday, Graham has become a prime target of the partisan vitriol, in particular because he said in 2018 that he would not consider a Supreme Court nominee during an election year.© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy Policy10/06/2020 03:34 PM EDT10/06/20 01:42 PM EDT10/06/20 06:37 PM EDT10/06/20 03:34 PM EDT10/06/20 01:42 PM EDT10/06/20 11:50 AM EDT10/06/20 10:50 AM EDT10/05/20 08:17 PM EDT10/05/20 07:21 PM EDT10/05/20 04:57 PM EDT© 2020 POLITICO LLC10/06/2020 01:42 PM EDT10/06/20 11:50 AM EDT10/06/20 06:37 PM EDT10/06/20 03:34 PM EDT10/06/20 01:42 PM EDT10/06/20 11:50 AM EDT10/06/20 10:50 AM EDT10/05/20 08:17 PM EDT10/05/20 07:21 PM EDT10/05/20 04:57 PM EDT© 2020 POLITICO LLCThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy PolicyThis website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners. Privacy Policy