(CNN) - An attorney representing President Donald Trump, John Eastman, is known for recently pushing a racist conspiracy theory -- that Trump himself later amplified -- claiming Vice President-elect Kamala Harris might not be eligible for the role because her parents were immigrants.Eastman wrote the Newsweek column that was widely discredited earlier this year and that Trump cited from the briefing room. "I heard it today that she doesn't meet the requirements," Trump said of Harris in August. "I have no idea if that's right. I would have thought, I would have assumed, that the Democrats would have checked that out before she gets chosen to run for vice president."At the time, Trump also praised Eastman as a talented and qualified lawyer. In a statement issued by the campaign with Wednesday's intervention in the lawsuit brought by Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton, which seeks to invalidate millions of votes in four states, Eastman -- who was identified as the counsel of record for Trump -- said: "I'm honored that the President asked me to represent him in this matter. I think his intervention in this case strengthens an already very strong original action by the state of Texas." The campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment about when Eastman was added to the legal team. Trump's other attorney, Rudy Giuliani, was hospitalized this week with Covid-19 and did not have his name attached to the statement. Newsweek later attached an extensive statement to the op ed denouncing birtherism and claimed the essay "was intended to explore a minority legal argument about the definition of who is a 'natural-born citizen' in the United States. But to many readers, the essay inevitably conveyed the ugly message that Senator Kamala Harris, a woman of color and the child of immigrants, was somehow not truly American."Editor's Note: Brynn Gingras is a CNN correspondent. The opinions expressed in this commentary are her own. View more opinion on CNN.(CNN) - I woke up on a Monday morning, a few weeks before Christmas, and in my inbox was an assignment to do a story on how malls, shopping centers and Santas would be adapting to our new Covid-world this year. I was thrilled! After months of heavy, heartbreaking headlines, I was tapped to cover something fun, creative and uplifting.I spent the day lining up interviews, talking to real-life, jolly Santas from around the Northeast. It was expectedly refreshing. But even that wasn't greater than what I was about to do on Thursday. I had a doctor's appointment scheduled to see my unborn baby for the first time, hear the heartbeat and get that coveted ultrasound photograph that I planned to send in a Christmas card to my in-laws in Ireland.This pandemic has brought challenges to so many people in various ways, but it may be easily forgotten that there is an entire population of women who are going through the process of pregnancy, essentially alone. Every check-up, every ultrasound, every benchmark in growing a baby is being experienced alone as partners aren't usually allowed into these appointments because of Covid-19 restrictions. Sure, they may just be doctor visits, but when it comes to learning every detail of your unborn child's life, expectant mothers crave these updates. And with them comes a whirlwind of emotions as you work to meet each milestone in the grueling, but beautiful, nine-month journey.It was the same for me. I was alone when I answered all of the doctor's questions with pride -- that I had a healthy 2-year-old boy at home, that we were rooting for a girl and that I was so sure I was having a girl, I had changed all of my passwords to what would be her name. I then laid down on the examination table, excitedly anticipating the feeling of the warm medical jelly and ultrasound wand on my belly.I asked the doctor, "can I FaceTime my husband now?" He responded, "let's just make sure everything is ok first." For some reason, those words immediately nicked my heart. In my mind, there was no possibility of anything going wrong. The appointment went downhill from there. I stared at the ceiling, feeling the doctor feverishly move the wand around my stomach as if he lost something. Soon he softly uttered the words I truly didn't expect to hear -- "I didn't find a heartbeat".I couldn't react. I couldn't even cry. I just learned my unborn baby was resting in peace in my body and I was numb. I couldn't even loop my husband in. I have never felt so alone and utterly heartbroken.The next day was filled with more appointments. Another ultrasound. This time I could see the baby. It was a shapeless shadow, strikingly different than what I remembered from my first pregnancy. The technician described in one image how it would have a coloration if it's heart was beating. It was grey. Confirmation of the miscarriage, as if I needed another. Tears, alone in front of strangers, came much easier this time. What followed was painful physical moments -- all triggering the ultimate rollercoaster of emotions:Disgust --Why did my body fail me?Anger -- Why did I let myself get excited too soon?Panic -- Did picking up my son cause this?Shame -- Why did I tell my parents, sister and some of my closest friends?Guilt -- Why don't I feel like putting my son to bed tonight?Grief -- How do my husband and I work through this?Confusion -- What happens next?I think most journalists would tell you writing can be cathartic. (In fact, I wrote this in a hospital waiting room to prevent myself from crying.)So, I tried to bury every horrible feeling, as I scripted that story about Santa promising Christmas to kids despite Covid. Now it seemed like the most unfortunate assignment. In one interview, Santa said he just wanted this Christmas to be about keeping hope alive. But how could I write something hopeful when I was feeling so hopeless?For a reporter who looks for answers, I had none.Luckily, others did. My own network of women -- friends and strangers -- who experienced this before me, and who despite the stigma around miscarriages, didn't keep it a secret. Women who were willing to revisit their own pain and share deeply personal details with me through phone calls and text messages.My childhood best friend said God doesn't make mistakes and to "lean into this." She encouraged me to have faith about where it would all lead. She promised me something good would come from this. A girlfriend called me. She had a miscarriage years ago. At the time, I remember immediately feeling terrible that I didn't know what she was feeling. I knew now. She gave me permission to be angry -- a feeling I didn't expect would come with this kind of heartbreak. My friend's wife who shared how it happened to her recently and how she desperately wanted to know why it happened and what she could have done differently. A lab technician who asked why I looked so sad as she drew my blood. She told me she once experienced the same loss and we broke down in tears together. As she drew the curtain for some privacy, she told me that she was going to say a prayer for me. She reminded me of Meghan Markle's op-ed in the New York Times, which I had read a week earlier. I reread it after I left the hospital, grateful that this stranger gave me an opening to explain my grief.Finding myself in pieces of their stories is helping me begin to process my own path toward healing. It helps to know that each of the women I spoke with have had children since or are expecting again -- a reassuring sign. As I still work through my loss, I'm choosing to find a wealth of comfort in my son's giggles, my husband's warm hugs and a chorus of strong, courageous women who do "talk about it"; who shared their most agonizing personal loss in order to swallow some of the pain for me. Thank you to those women who encourage me to honor every emotion, knowing it's the best medicine.And, thank you to Santa who unsuspectingly promised this 38-year-old hope in a year that brought the ultimate, unimaginable struggle for so many, in so many ways.I encourage you, whichever emotion you are feeling as we close out this trying year, to find your circle of healers, because they're looking for you too.(CNN) - Smugglers managed to throw a hefty haul of contraband items -- including 20 pounds of tobacco and seven pounds of barbecued chicken -- over the fence of a Mississippi prison. They may have gotten away with it, if it weren't for the prison's security technology. Officials at the South Mississippi Correctional Institution in Leakesville intercepted more than 25 packages containing a number of items including four pounds of marijuana, 38 cellphones, chargers and earbuds and cold medication, plus the chicken and tobacco. Some of the items were sewn into footballs so they could be easily thrown over the 18-foot-tall fence surrounding the prison, but new sensing technology alerted guards to the drop, according to a statement released by the Mississippi Department of Corrections. The unidentified smugglers attempted to throw the packages across a remote section of the prison's grounds, but officers were immediately alerted by the sensors and rushed to the scene, arriving in time to intercept the items and see their vehicle drive away. Authorities are searching for the suspects. The prison has struggled to contain violent gang activities within its walls, and the MDOC says items like these can be dangerous for the inmates' safety. "We are making Mississippi prisons safer for inmates and Corrections officers by stopping the flow of contraband," MDOC Commissioner Burl Cain said. "Gang leaders use contraband as a way to control other inmates ... Now we're installing and using the latest security systems, drones overhead, and cameras and scanners everywhere."Prisoners found to be connected to the incident will lose eligibility for early release, according to the MDOC.(CNN) - The only questions now are how many more times President Donald Trump wants to lose the election to President-elect Joe Biden and whether his Republican acolytes on Capitol Hill will wake up and recognize reality.Trump's dangerous delusions about a stolen election represent the most overt attempt in modern history by a President to overthrow the will of the voters. But they have reached the point of no return after the conservative-majority Supreme Court largely crushed what remaining hallucinatory hopes Trump harbored of reversing his defeat.The Court's devastating first response to the post-election fray sent a clear signal that the top bench disdains frivolous and long-shot cases already witheringly rejected by lower courts.The denial of Pennsylvania Republicans' request to block the certification of their state's results, for which there were no noted dissents, was a humiliating repudiation of Trump's fundamental misunderstanding that three justices that he installed on the Court would swing him a disputed election. It also showed that evidence-free conspiracy theories might thrill the President's base and his media propagandists, but they don't cut it in court."The jig is up. The President of the United States has no other recourse," said Laura Coates, a former federal prosecutor and CNN's senior legal analyst.Biden's spokesman Mike Gwin said: "This election is over. Joe Biden won and he will be sworn in as President in January."The Supreme Court weighed in just hours after the President's latest illusory claims that he won the election, prevailed in swing states and was the victim of a massive, orchestrated operation by Democrats to defraud the electorate."Hopefully the next administration will be the Trump administration, because you can't steal hundreds of thousands of votes," the President said, spooling off multiple lies on Tuesday about the election result.MAP: See 2020 election resultsFor the record, there is no doubt who will form the next administration. Biden won 306 electoral votes to Trump's 232. He pulled five swing states from Trump's 2016 column. The Trump campaign has failed to produce any evidence of fraud or irregularities that stand up in Court and its cases have been thrown out by multiple and deeply critical judges in a string of states.The President's corrosive attempts to erode the legitimacy of US elections -- the bedrock of a system based on the consent of the governed -- have come as he largely ignores the real threat facing the nation: a pandemic that has killed nearly 300,000 Americans and has been exacerbated by his neglect.A power play that will go on But any expectations that reality, fact and evidence will begin to shape the behavior of the President, and supporters who still refuse to admit that Biden won the election, would fly in the face of events of the last four years.It would also ignore the way that Trump is using his claims of fraud to salve his own ego after he lost the election, to raise money to keep himself in the political spotlight after he leaves office and to destroy Biden's presidency before it starts.Just on Tuesday, the most senior Republicans in Congress -- including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy -- voted against a resolution naming Biden as President-elect.Some Republicans have refused to say that they will accept that Biden will become the 46th President even after Electoral College votes confirming his wins are finalized in the states on December 14. In a display of deeply unconstitutional behavior, the President called Republican legislators seeking help in overturning his rival's wins in the key states. And his legal team -- that features two attorneys, Rudy Giuliani and Jenna Ellis, who have Covid-19 -- pledged Tuesday to fight on until noon on Inauguration Day on January 20. The statement rejected the constitutional red letter day that fell on Tuesday -- the so-called safe harbor deadline -- when legal challenges on the election must end.The refusal of Washington Republicans to accept the obvious result of the election contrasts with the dutiful courage of many GOP officials in battleground states who have defied extreme pressure from Trump and threats from partisans on their side of the aisle to certify elections Biden won. A political calculationClearly, Trump's supporters in a party that he transformed in his own populist nationalist image after forging a stunning connection with his party's base, are acting out of their own political interests. Anyone who wants a future in the GOP can't get crossways with the President. But their conduct also suggests that much of the Republican Party, the one-time home of Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan has simply become a vessel for Trump's personal crusades. The relentless pursuit of power -- rather than principles that once made the GOP the most fertile party of ideas in Washington -- are now its organizing principle.This trend suggests that the constitutional nihilism perfected by the President will still be a strong force in the GOP when he has left the White House -- and will complicate Biden's hopes of unifying a divided nation, which critics in his own party view as naïve.Stuart Stevens, a former chief strategist for Mitt Romney's 2012 presidential campaign, said the party had squandered an inherited legacy of respect for democratic values."I think this stuff is very hard to undo. It's that, you know, old cliche. It's hard to build something and easy to tear it down. They're burning down faith in democracy," Stevens told CNN's Don Lemon on Monday."I spent years, decades working for the Republican Party. We had an ideological differences, but right now, I think the difference between the Democratic Party and the Republican Party is one is for democracy and one is not for democracy."Republicans compete to stand closest to TrumpEver since the election, and as recently as Tuesday, Republicans showed they have little intention of adapting to a new Washington balance of power in which a Democratic White House expects to be able to work its will.No Biden officials were invited to Trump's "vaccine summit" at the White House Tuesday, even though they will be responsible for distributing the vaccinations that will hopefully end the pandemic next year.The Republican Attorney General of Texas Ken Paxton asked the Supreme Court to invalidate election results in Pennsylvania, Georgia, Wisconsin and Michigan, all of which Biden won on his way to 270 electoral votes."The notion a Texas attorney general is going to try to disenfranchise voters from four other states for laws that were in effect on election day is just not meritorious in the least," Ben Ginsberg, a veteran Republican election lawyer, told CNN on Tuesday.But the fact Paxton filed the suit, and that Texas Republican Sen. Ted Cruz offered to argue Trump cases in the Supreme Court, shows the value party members place in currying favor with the President, no matter how fantastical or damaging his false narratives are to US democracy.Recent days have also seen an armed mob show up outside the house of a senior Democratic official in Michigan involved in running the elections. Another senior official, Gabriel Sterling in Georgia, a Republican who said he voted for Trump, has warned the President to cool tensions before someone gets killed.And Trump's Republican allies have said they plan to hold a House floor debate on his baseless claims that he was cheated out of the election when the Electoral College votes are tallied to confirm Biden's victory in January.None of this will stop Biden from becoming President. But it's likely to cause serious damage to the next President's legitimacy and the health of the US governing institutions Trump has repeatedly worked to tarnish.(CNN) - The United States is suffering a devastating rise in cases and deaths from the coronavirus and hopes for a return to a more familiar life are pinned on vaccines.US regulators are on the cusp of authorizing a Covid-19 vaccine -- possibly as soon as this week. A US Food and Drug Administration vaccine advisory committee meets Thursday to discuss emergency use authorization for the vaccine developed by Pfizer/BioNTech, and next week it meets to discuss the Moderna vaccine. Both vaccines are about 95% effective after two doses given a few weeks apart.Once a vaccine is authorized by the FDA, Operation Warp Speed, the federal government's initiative to develop a vaccine, can start shipping and distributing the vaccine to states. Vaccinations won't begin until after a US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention committee recommends the vaccine.Once shots begin, roughly 20 million people could be vaccinated in the next few weeks, Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar told CNN Wednesday. But until many more are vaccinated, mitigation efforts -- such as wearing masks and keep a safe distance -- need to continue in order to stop the virus from spreading.Here's what to expect:Thursday, December 10Who: FDA's Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee, or VRBPAC -- a committee of independent experts with no stake in any of the companies developing Covid-19 vaccinesWhat's expected: A vote on a recommendation to the FDA on EUA for Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccineWhen: 9 a.m. ET start; key testimony at 1 p.m. and 2 p.m.; Discussion/vote session starts at 3:10 p.m.; 6 p.m. endWhat you'll see: Public and livestreamed remote Zoom meeting -- expect audio, slideshows, possibly some videoDraft agenda for December 10 meeting here.Thursday, December 11 or later Who: FDA's emergency use authorization decisionWhat's expected: The FDA's EUA allows shipping to begin, but shots still can't be administered until the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advisory committee recommends vaccineWhen: FDA will announce this at any time, likely without warning.Friday, December 11 and Sunday, December 13Who: CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, or ACIPWhat's expected: A vote that the CDC should offer the vaccine to the American public; for recommendation to be made official, it must be accepted by CDC and published in CDC's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.When: 12 p.m.- 5 p.m. ET Friday, December 11; 12 p.m.- 4 p.m. ET Sunday, December 13; vote is currently expected at 3:30 p.m. SundayWhat you'll see: Public and livestreamed remote Zoom meeting -- expect audio, slideshows, minimal videoDraft agenda for both meetings here.Thursday, December 17Who: FDA VRBPAC meetingWhat's expected: A vote on a recommendation to the FDA on EUA for Moderna's Covid-19 vaccineWhen: Details not posted, expect it to mirror 9 a.m.- 6 p.m. ET schedule of the Pfizer meetingWhat you'll see: Public and livestreamed remote Zoom meeting -- expect audio, slideshows, minimal videoDraft agenda: Not yet posted (CNN) - Although all 50 states have certified their election results and the Supreme Court swiftly rejected an emergency request from Pennsylvania Republicans to block election results in the commonwealth, the justices are now grappling with a new controversial bid from Texas, supported by President Donald Trump and 17 other Republican-led states.They are asking the Supreme Court for an emergency order to invalidate the ballots of millions of voters in four battleground states -- Georgia, Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania -- even though there is no evidence of widespread fraud.Critics of the President and his allies say the case reflects an audacious and legally dubious gambit to keep the lawsuits flowing in order to prolong baseless claims that President-elect Joe Biden's victory was somehow illegitimate.Here's what you need to know:Who is suing?Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton filed the lawsuit Tuesday. The President on Wednesday filed a motion to intervene -- basically a request to join the lawsuit, asking for the same result. Seventeen GOP states are backing the effort as well.What do the Republicans want?Essentially, to swing the election to Trump.They're asking for the court to block the electors from Georgia, Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, pushing Biden back under the magic 270-vote total to win.First the court would have to allow Paxton to file the suit. Then the court would have to block certification of the Electoral College vote, determine that the four states had allowed massive amounts of "illegal" votes, have the states revisit their vote counts and then resubmit the numbers. The court could also, Trump's filing suggests, let state legislatures determine who wins each state or throw the entire election to the US House of Representatives, where each state delegation would have one vote -- and since Republican delegations outnumber Democratic delegations, Trump would win.Is there any precedent?No. "In a nutshell the President is asking the Supreme Court to exercise its rarest form of jurisdiction to effectively overturn the entire presidential election," said Steve Vladeck, a CNN Supreme Court analyst and University of Texas Law School professor.The Supreme Court has 6 conservatives. Does that guarantee Trump will win?No. The court has thus far shown no desire to intervene in the presidential election. On Tuesday, it rejected the plea from Pennsylvania Republicans to invalidate the state's presidential tallies. It issued one sentence and noted zero dissents. (Justices don't always have to make their votes public.)Trump has suggested publicly that he hopes his nominees -- Amy Coney Barrett, Brett Kavanaugh and Neil Gorsuch -- will side with him on any election dispute. Conservative Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito are also ones to watch. No justice is required to recuse him or herself from the dispute; Barrett, notably, did not recuse herself in the Pennsylvania lawsuit.When will we hear from the court?The Supreme Court is going through standard procedural protocols, placing the case on its docket and giving the four battleground states until 3 p.m. ET Thursday to respond.The court could act after those filings arrive or wait until Texas files a brief replying to the arguments made by the battleground states. The justices acted quickly in rejecting the Pennsylvania lawsuit on Tuesday, but they could bide their time as they have in other election-related cases.They do "meet" Friday for their regular conference, now held over the phone. Unlike a traditional cert petition (request for the court to hear a case), it will take five justices to agree to allow Paxton to file his suit.Then what?If the court refuses to take up the lawsuit, it's another nail in the coffin for Trump's hopes to reverse his election loss. If it acts in the other direction, it will be another dramatic and unprecedented turn in the 2020 election, guaranteeing the President will continue to challenge Biden's victory.What is original jurisdiction?Paxton seeks to file the lawsuit against other states, and in such instances he is allowed to come directly to the Supreme Court So-called "original jurisdiction" cases are almost exclusively meant to handle inter-state disputes that can't be resolved elsewhere, such as border disagreements or suits over water rights.Trump, in asking to intervene in the lawsuit, is basically using Texas' legal coattails.But while Texas is using a shortcut to the Supreme Court, justices would have to agree that it can't be solved in other courts -- for instance, federal or state courts."There's nothing unique about Texas' claims here, most of which have already been brought in other suits against the same four states," said Vladeck, noting that if Trump and other states are joining in, it could weaken the suggestion the Texas case is unique.Justices might be wary of opening the floodgates to all political disputes between states ending up on their docket.Benjamin Ginsberg, a longtime Republican election law expert and CNN contributor, told CNN on Wednesday that he didn't think the court "for an instant" will consider taking up the case.The GOP "used to be a party for states' rights," Ginsberg said. "I can't imagine something that is less faithful to the principle of states' rights than a Texas attorney general trying to tell other states how to run their elections."Sen. John Cornyn, the senior Texas Republican, told CNN that "I frankly struggle to understand the legal theory of it. Number one, why would a state, even such a great state as Texas, have a say-so on how other states administer their elections? We have a diffused and dispersed system and even though we might not like it, they may think it's unfair, those are decided at the state and local level and not at the national level."What evidence do Trump and Republicans have?The lawsuit includes several of the same claims that state and federal courts have rejected time and time again over the past month regarding alleged voter fraud and the legality of mail-in balloting."Using the Covid-19 pandemic as a justification," Paxton wrote, officials in the battleground states "usurped their legislatures' authority and unconstitutionally revised their state's election statutes." He said they had done so through "executive fiat." He pointed specifically to mail-in ballots, which he said were placed "in drop boxes" with "little or no chain of custody," which weakened signature verification and witness requirements, which he called "the strongest security measures protecting the integrity of the vote." The President for weeks has pushed increasingly desperate appeals and baseless conspiracy theories about his second term being stolen."Our Country is deeply divided in ways that it arguably has not been seen since the election of 1860," Trump's motion to intervene states. "There is a high level of distrust between the opposing sides, compounded by the fact that, in the election just held, election officials in key swing states, for apparently partisan advantage, failed to conduct their state elections in compliance with state election law."Seventeen GOP-led states are siding with Texas and the President:  Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah and West Virginia.Who are Trump's new lawyers?The President's campaign has been represented by former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and attorney Jenna Ellis. In the current motion, however, Trump is being represented by John Eastman.Eastman is known for recently pushing a racist conspiracy theory -- that Trump himself later amplified -- claiming Vice President-elect Kamala Harris might not be eligible for the role because her parents were immigrants.Trump has also asked GOP Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas -- the former solicitor general of the state -- to represent him at the Supreme Court in the unlikely event it hears oral arguments.Editor's Note: Michael D'Antonio is the author of the book "Never Enough: Donald Trump and the Pursuit of Success" and co-author, with Peter Eisner, of the book "High Crimes: The Corruption, Impunity, and Impeachment of Donald Trump." The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion on CNN.(CNN) - On Tuesday, the Supreme Court unanimously rejected President Donald Trump's effort to overturn the presidential election in Pennsylvania. Hours later, the defeated President was back to spreading lies and conspiracy theories about being robbed of victory in an election that he lost to Joe Biden by more than seven million votes.   The madness of Trump's they-stole-it-from-me crusade grows more obvious every day. And it raises a question that has been asked about him for years: Does he really believe what he says?When Trump was just a businessman and TV celebrity, the answer didn't matter. But now it does.The man who occupies the highest office in the land is traveling the country in Air Force One, bringing along his Secret Service protectors and his presidential seal, and spreading his nutty claims.At a rally last week in Valdosta, Ga., he tells his followers, "We're winning!" even as one court after another, in state after state, tosses out his frantic attempts to upend the election by lawsuit. Ranting endlessly on Twitter and Facebook, he insists that victory was stolen from him. But the "evidence of fraud" that he says "is overwhelming" is actually nonexistent.It's all very crazy. It is also dangerous.  The danger became obvious when, on the night when Trump spoke in Georgia, armed protesters gathered outside a Michigan state official's home to chant and shout obscenities. Their cries of "Stop the steal!" were obviously inspired by the President's delusions.  .On Saturday Trump put it this way: "We're all deeply disturbed and upset by the lying, cheating, robbing, stealing that's gone on with our elections."Michigan was also the place where, authorities said, the governor was the target of a kidnapping plot foiled by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Fourteen men were arrested. Authorities allege that they talked about executing the governor and burning down the state Capitol. Part of what motivated them, according to court records, was (Trump's other favorite obsession) state restrictions to limit the spread of the coronavirus. Even as cases, hospitalizations and deaths have climbed to new heights across the country, the President has persisted in attacking state and local officials who are fighting the pandemic with scientifically sound methods -- mask requirements and limits on public gatherings. In Georgia, Trump said cities and state "should open up" to business as usual.That view has put tens of thousands of people -- like the supporters who stand should-to-shoulder without face coverings at his rallies -- at risk of debilitating illness and death. One study by Stanford University estimated that Trump rallies were responsible for about 30,000 extra infections and 700 deaths as of Oct. 30. Nevertheless, people seem to take pride in putting their lives on the line for Trump, to show they agree with him when he says things like, "Don't be afraid of Covid."Why would Trump downplay the coronavirus risk and put his supporters in danger? Well, it seems he believed that the business shutdowns many experts recommended to fight the pandemic would hurt him politically. The Washington Post reported Trump felt this way back in July when America had recorded three million cases and 130,000 deaths. As the US death count more than doubled and cases rose nearly five-fold, other nations fared better with stringent shutdowns and mask requirements. One could only conclude that Trump's continued public call to loosen public health measures was not sincere.      In a similar way, the President's claims about the outcome of the 2020 election seem more an act intended to inspire the faithful to cheer and donate money than a matter of genuine belief.  With his court losses piling up and his lawyers reduced to presenting oddball witnesses at legislative hearings, Donald Trump knows he lost the election. CNN reported weeks ago that he has said so himself. However, by furiously insisting he was cheated and filing lawsuits across the country, he has been able to freeze fellow Republicans, who would otherwise congratulate Biden, and raise scads of money with appeals for a so-called Election Defense Fund. Of the more than $200 million raised by Trump during the time he has bellowed about being cheated, only a reported $8.8 million has been spent on the lawsuits, according to figures released by the campaign last week and reported in the Washington Post. The rest may be put into a so-called leadership political action committee, which can fund all sorts of activities Trump might enjoy after leaving the White House.  Trump's public denials about the election results will also help him escape the blow to his ego that might come with having to admit he lost fair and square. Having long established that he thinks that there's little worse in life than losing, Trump's image requires that he refuse to acknowledge a genuine defeat. Instead he will proclaim the American election system to be corrupt, and rally his followers to believe him, even though he knows this is not true.So where does this leave us, as we consider whether Donald Trump believes the outrageous stuff he says? The only answer is that he doesn't believe it, but he doesn't care what damage he does to his country. Even if it makes people suffer and die, or leads them to take up arms against make believe enemies, he will keep it up for as long as the cash flows in and the faithful tell him he's a winner.       (CNN) - After going quiet in the months before the election, federal authorities are now actively investigating the business dealings of Hunter Biden, a person with knowledge of the probe said. His father, President-elect Joe Biden, is not implicated. Now that the election is over, the investigation is entering a new phase. Federal prosecutors in Delaware, working with the IRS Criminal Investigation agency and the FBI, are taking overt steps such as issuing subpoenas and seeking interviews, the person with knowledge said.Activity in the investigation had gone covert in recent months due to Justice Department guidelines prohibiting overt actions that could affect an election, the person said. CNN contacted Biden's attorney and the campaign this week seeking comment about the investigation. On Wednesday, they released a statement acknowledging the probe."I learned yesterday for the first time that the U.S. Attorney's Office in Delaware advised my legal counsel, also yesterday, that they are investigating my tax affairs. I take this matter very seriously but I am confident that a professional and objective review of these matters will demonstrate that I handled my affairs legally and appropriately, including with the benefit of professional tax advisors," Hunter Biden said in a statement.Investigators have been examining multiple financial issues, including whether Hunter Biden and his associates violated tax and money laundering laws in business dealings in foreign countries, principally China, according to two people briefed on the probe. Some of those transactions involved people who the FBI believe sparked counterintelligence concerns, a common issue when dealing with Chinese business, according to another source.The investigation began as early as 2018, predating the arrival of William Barr as US attorney general, two people briefed on the investigation said. The existence of the probe will present an immediate test of Biden's promise to maintain the independence of the Justice Department. Sinclair Broadcast Group reported in October that the FBI had opened a criminal investigation into Hunter Biden. CNN has learned new details about the scope of the probe, including that it is focused on China.A mysterious laptopHints of the investigation emerged after President Donald Trump's personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, helped orchestrate news stories centered on a laptop purported to belong to Hunter Biden and said to include his business documents and other personal material.The FBI took possession of the laptop in late 2019, according to a computer repairman in Delaware who showed reporters a copy of a subpoena. The subpoena is real, according to people briefed on the matter, but the FBI and prosecutors in Delaware have refused to confirm the existence of the investigation.It's unclear whether the laptop's contents are relevant to the ongoing federal probe and whether investigators can even use them, given potential chain of custody requirements for evidence. CNN has previously reported that at least some of the information Giuliani claims came from the laptop appears similar to information that was being shared by others last year in Ukraine, according to one witness who the FBI has approached for information. Giuliani's efforts to dig up dirt on the Bidens in Ukraine last year were at the heart of Trump's impeachment. The current investigation into Hunter Biden appears to predate those efforts.The involvement of Trump lawyers in the published news stories on the purported Biden laptop led to a flurry of activity by Republican lawmakers and the Trump campaign looking to amplify allegations of corruption ahead of the election. The FBI met with a former Hunter Biden business associate who publicly made claims about potential wrongdoing. The FBI issued a statement at the time saying that "as a general matter when contacted, the FBI reviews information from the public for consideration of any violations of applicable federal laws." The political implications of the probe already have been an issue in recent months for Barr, who was under public pressure from Trump to make Hunter Biden's business activities an election issue. To date, the investigation doesn't involve any allegations of wrongdoing by the President-elect, according to the two main sources briefed on the matter. Barr has said publicly the elder Biden was not under investigation, despite a public campaign by Trump urging Barr to announce a corruption probe of both Bidens.A focus on ChinaInvestigators appear to be focused on Hunter Biden's business activities connected to China. Some of his business dealings in China are publicly known through interviews and documents released in September by Senate Republicans on the Finance Committee and the Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs.After his father left office in 2017, Hunter Biden worked on securing a deal with CEFC China Energy to invest in US energy projects, according to documents released by Republicans.At least one of the matters investigators have examined is a 2017 gift of a 2.8-carat diamond that Hunter Biden received from CEFC's founder and former chairman Ye Jianming after a Miami business meeting, one person briefed on the matter said. In 2019, Biden provided the New Yorker magazine an account of receiving the diamond from Ye. He told the New Yorker that he felt uncomfortable receiving the diamond and gave it to other associates, and that he doesn't know what they did with it. "I knew it wasn't a good idea to take it. I just felt like it was weird," he said in his New Yorker interview.Hunter Biden told the New Yorker that the CEFC deal fell through, and that he didn't consider Ye to be a shady character. Chinese authorities later detained Ye, amid Chinese media reports of corruption allegations against him.In the magazine interview, Hunter Biden went public with his account of his personal struggles, including substance abuse and the breakup of his marriage. During his divorce proceedings, attorneys for his ex-wife cited a diamond that Biden had received and suggested it was worth $80,000. Biden told the New Yorker it was worth about $10,000. Receiving such a gift could have potential tax implications for Biden and his account to the New Yorker doesn't describe how he dealt with the issue thereafter. Sources tell CNN that investigators have been looking into whether Biden properly reported his income for tax purposes over a period of time. While the diamond was initially part of the inquiry, it's unclear whether the gift remains part of the focus of investigators.Hunter Biden later briefly acted as a lawyer to represent Patrick Ho, who ran an organization backed by CEFC, and who was convicted in 2018 of paying millions of dollars in bribes to officials in Chad and Uganda to benefit CEFC energy projects in those countries. Ho was sentenced to a three-year federal prison term. He has since been released and is back in Hong Kong, his attorney said.Hunter Biden had been involved in an earlier Chinese business venture that drew concerns in the Obama White House and Joe Biden's staff, according to the New Yorker. In 2013, Hunter Biden became involved with US and Chinese partners who were creating an investment fund called BHR Partners for deals outside China. Hunter Biden was an unpaid member of the BHR board and took an equity stake after his father left office, the New Yorker reported.   A challenge for a new PresidentIn an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper last week, President-elect Biden pledged to maintain an independent Justice Department free of political influence."I'm not going to be telling them what they have to do and don't have to do. I'm not going to be saying, go prosecute A, B or C," Biden said."That's not the role -- it's not my Justice Department. It's the people's Justice Department."The person or persons I pick to run that department are going to be people who are going to have the independent capacity to decide who gets prosecuted and who doesn't," said Biden.Republicans in Congress are almost certain to seize on the existence of the probe to further their argument that Hunter Biden's activities in China are a sign of his father's conflict of interest when it comes to dealing with foreign policy with Beijing.  It's also likely going to be an issue that Biden's attorney general nominee will have to face during a Senate confirmation hearing.Trump faced a similar, but much thornier, problem after taking office in 2017 when his then-attorney general, Jeff Sessions, quickly had to recuse himself from overseeing the federal investigation of the Trump campaign and possible links to Russian interference in the 2016 election.Sessions was part of the President's election campaign and he held meetings with the then-Russian ambassador, which became part of the FBI's investigation.Biden's likely attorney general candidates aren't known to have such entanglements.(CNN) - President-elect Joe Biden is expected to nominate Katherine Tai as US Trade Representative, three sources familiar with the decision confirmed to CNN.Tai currently is the top Democratic trade counsel for the House Ways and Means Committee and oversaw trade enforcement for China during the Obama administration.As an Asian-American, she is the latest diverse figure expected to be named to a Cabinet-level post in the incoming Biden administration. If confirmed, Tai would be the first woman of color to serve in the role.CNN previously reported that Tai was among the leading contenders to serve as US Trade Representative.Tai's nomination will be seen as a clear sign that Biden is serious about his campaign promise to enforce trade rules on China. Tai is seen as an expert on China trade policy and oversaw trade enforcement for China during the Obama administration.Biden promised throughout the campaign to work with America's allies to crack down on Chinese trade policy and has said he is unlikely to quickly roll back President Donald Trump's trade measures on the country.Tai was named to her role on Capitol Hill in 2017 after serving three years as trade counsel for the Ways and Means Committee. She served in the Office of the General Counsel in the Office of the US Trade Representative from 2007 to 2014, including as chief counsel for China Trade Enforcement from 2011 to 2014.Tai played a key role in negotiating trade policy for Democrats in the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, which came under Trump's administration. The USMCA replaced the North American Free Trade Agreement, which was approved under President Bill Clinton. The USMCA was signed by Trump and his Mexican and Canadian counterparts in 2018, and then Congress approved the trade agreement earlier this year after Democrats added stronger labor rules(CNN) - In mid-November, as President Donald Trump railed against the election results, his wife, first lady Melania Trump publicly agreed with his sentiments. But privately, a handful of days after the final state tally, the first lady tasked an emissary with discreetly finding out what was available to her in terms of budget and staff allocation for post-White House life.While the President is busy figuring out a way to stay in the White House, the first lady is determining what to put in storage, what goes to Trump's New York City digs, and what should be tagged for shipment to Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida. "She just wants to go home," said another source familiar with Melania Trump's state of mind. Asked how the first lady feels about rumors her husband might announce a 2024 bid, the source added: "That might not go over well." The first lady quietly brought on Marcia Lee Kelly to her scant East Wing staff in April as a special government employee who could add gravitas and experience. She is unpaid and serves in a volunteer capacity but her job as Trump's special adviser proved helpful as the waning months of her first-term tenure. Kelly had previously run the White House Office of Administration and after it became clear Trump would need to prep for her life after Washington the first lady told Kelly to discreetly ask West Wing acquaintances and a member of the Office of Management and Budget whether there were taxpayer funds allocated to former first ladies, according to two sources familiar with the discussions.The short answer is no. While there are post-presidential perks for such things for the outgoing commander in chief, budgets to set up an official office and staff and cover some travel costs, there is nothing from the government for any first lady, save a paltry $20,000-a-year pension, which is paid out only if her husband dies. The intel gathered by Kelly on the budget -- that there isn't one -- has not deterred Trump from turning her energy to departing Washington. According to discussions with three sources familiar, there is currently ongoing inventory being taken at the White House of the Trump's own furniture and art and personal items. And the first lady is hyper-focused of late on her legacy. One thing Trump is considering is a book, though it will likely not be a memoir -- the post-White House writing of which is a tradition most first ladies have adhered to. Michelle Obama's memoir, "Becoming," and Laura Bush's memoir, "Spoken from the Heart," were massive bestsellers. Instead, Trump is said to be toying with writing a photo-centric coffee table book about White House hospitality history, or one perhaps centered on the design projects she has completed while first lady, according to a source in the publishing industry familiar with preliminary discussions. Trump has also reportedly done one of the final things most first ladies do before leaving office: select the administration's official china service."Mrs. Trump is focused on her role as first lady. Monday she unveiled her most current effort in preserving the White House by announcing the completion of the tennis pavilion. She also recently unveiled a new piece of art in the newly renovated Rose Garden. Her office just revealed this year's Christmas décor. Her schedule remains full with her duties as a mother, wife and first lady of the United States," the first lady's chief of staff Stephanie Grisham told CNN.A smooth transitionTrump is now focused on Mar-a-Lago, a source said, ensuring a smooth transition out of Washington for herself and her 14-year-old-son, Barron, who one source confirms will finish his school year in Florida and not at the posh suburban Maryland private school he has attended for the last three years. While Trump has yet to concede, Melania Trump is already overseeing shipments of personal items to Mar-a-Lago from both the White House and her Trump Tower penthouse in New York City, a source at the resort confirms to CNN.Tham Kannalikham, the interior decorator Trump hired in 2017 to redesign the personal quarters of the White House executive residence when they moved in, has been for the last several weeks focused on the Trump "home" at Mar-a-Lago, said a source. That includes overseeing painting, new textiles and providing assistance for an aesthetic facelift for the space that will now be the family's permanent residence. Minor renovations to the bathrooms are taking place as well, though nothing major can be constructed on the property without a grueling permit process, as Mar-a-Lago is a National Historic Landmark and permission by the city's council to alter the façade or add an addition is unlikely. The minor updates were planned and underway before the election, according to a source. For a family used to several floors of Manhattan penthouse living, as the Trump's Trump Tower residence reflects, they are going to be considerably downsizing to reside at Mar-a-Lago, which is part of the reason the first lady is now further adjusting the private quarters, where, as in the White House, she has her own bedroom suite and dressing room. The Mar-a-Lago abode encapsulates approximately 3,000 square feet of the property's main building, a generous proportion for many families, but a relative studio apartment after living in the 55,000 square foot White House mansion. "It will feel like staying full-time at a nice hotel," said Laurence Leamer, author of "Mar-a-Lago: Inside the Gates of Power at Donald Trump's Presidential Palace." "It's fine for a bit, sure, but can you imagine Donald Trump just sitting around there for six months of the year? It will start to feel confining very quickly." Not to mention the steady stream of club members who will essentially walk past the former President's front door every time they wander from the pool to the dining room, or the spa to the patio. "It will be the weirdest thing," said Leamer, who suggests if Trump is as wealthy has he claims to be, he should close the club and keep the entire mansion as his home. A source with knowledge of preparations for Trump's arrival in January said there is currently "a really extensive Secret Service presence now," at Mar-a-Lago, as security elements are being assessed for Trump's long-term protection.Melania Trump views Mar-a-Lago as a peaceful respite of sun, solitude and self-care. "Her parents have a suite of rooms there as well, not far from the family quarters," said Leamer, who has spent ample time at Mar-a-Lago as a guest of several members. Viktor and Amalija Knavs, Trump's parents, stay at Mar-a-Lago often, and have done so for much of the two decades their daughter has been with Donald Trump. The first lady also knows Mar-a-Lago is the one place her husband might find a sliver of the accolades he will likely require now that he has spent four years in the very public eye. "She is aware he is not the kind of ex-President who will retreat to a quiet life of writing his memoir, or taking up oil painting," one of the sources said, referencing the post-White House habits of Barack Obama and George W. Bush. "The members will bolster his ego," added Leamer, noting the loyalty of the Palm Beach set who belong to Mar-a-Lago, many of whom supported Trump throughout his presidency. One source familiar adds the club's rituals when Trump makes one of his frequent visits "always" include the playing of "God Bless America" when Trump and Melania Trump enter the ballroom or outdoor patio for dinnertime. "It is ... odd," the source said of the way Mar-a-Lago's nightly lounge singer switches from an ambient playlist of jazzed-up Andrew Lloyd Webber showtunes to a patriotic anthem, and everyone stands when Trump comes down to eat. On Saturday at the Georgia rally, Trump told the crowd he would look forward to post-White House life at Mar-a-Lago. "I'd go to Florida ... I'd take it easy," he said. Melania Trump's future endeavorsThe first lady's queries about funds for an office and staff would indicate she is thinking of establishing an official office after the White House, as most first ladies do, to continue initiatives or policy goals begun while their husbands are in office. One source confirmed Trump is mulling the idea of keeping up her "Be Best" platform aimed at helping children, but another person with knowledge said no firm plans for how or when that might take shape have been determined. Trump's East Wing office has at approximately 12 people been the smallest staff in modern history. As for the official Trump china, the first lady recently selected patterns and colors for hundreds of place settings, which is standard procedure for an outgoing first lady. Presidential administration china has traditionally remained at the White House as part of the official collection and, dating as far back as President James Monroe, can be utilized by future administrations. However, a source familiar with the order said Melania Trump is not relying on the White House Historical Association to pick up the tab for the set, which is not a requirement, but it is an option. The last administration not to use funds from the White House Historical Associations for official china was the Reagans, notes the source, who confirms the association was "not involved in an acquisition project related to the Trump china." A full official administration china service is not an inexpensive endeavor. The Obama china, planning for which began in 2011, was delivered in 2015, the color inspired by the blue waters off of Hawaii. There were 320-settings of 11 pieces each, costing more than $350,000. Laura Bush's china selection totaled 4,500 pieces and was also well into six-figures. (Bush ordered an additional, less-formal 75-place settings to use for entertaining in the private residence, which was not paid for by the White House Historical Association.)  Melania Trump has most commonly opted to borrow place settings from the official Clinton china set for her White House events, the two Trump-hosted state dinners included. There are 300-place settings of apropos ornate, shiny gold plates and dishware selected by Hillary Clinton when she was first lady. Whether Trump's personal choice reflects the ostentatiousness of the Trump era, only the future will tell.CNN's Jamie Gangel contributed to this report.(CNN) - For many Americans, the economic effects of the pandemic have been devastating. Millions have lost jobs. Food and housing insecurity has soared. And roughly half of US households reported a drop in income this year, according to Bankrate.com. Life will get worse for them if they don't get more financial help or paying work soon.But others -- lucky enough to keep their jobs and even work from home -- have ended up financially better off, or at least unaffected, thanks to such factors as a rising stock market, increased savings, or a boost in demand for their business. He never imagined he'd be in this situationUnfortunately, Barnell Garrett finds himself in the "worse off" category. In March, his job as a hotel sales manager in Seattle disappeared -- first through a furlough, then a permanent layoff.Garrett's unemployment benefits expire at the end of December, and he doesn't know if he'll qualify for an extension. His health insurance costs are now $641 a month, well above the $150 he was paying when his employer subsidized his premiums. He's considering withdrawing about $25,000 from his 401(k) to pay off the extra credit card debt he accrued during the pandemic to pay for groceries and insurance, as well as a private loan he took out a few years ago.He says he can pay his bills through January, but if he doesn't get help soon, he will have to move in with his mother if he can't find a much cheaper place to live. Now approaching 40, he never imagined he'd be in this situation.Garrett said he doesn't expect the hotel industry, where he's built his career, to bounce back quickly so he's looking at other industries for a job. He's willing to take a pay cut, but is shocked at how low the pay on offer is -- even when an employer requires a college degree and years of experience."Several of the jobs I interviewed for initially looked like good-paying jobs, but during the interview I learned that they pay barely above Seattle's $15 minimum wage and are lower than my monthly unemployment," Garrett said. Her 401(k) is already tapped out Olivia Bukosky said last year she was a working mom living a middle class life in Owings Mills, Maryland. This year, she lost her job in property management, drained her 401(k) and has been collecting unemployment benefits and food stamps.She's behind on rent and worries she'll be evicted in January if her landlord can't secure rental subsidies from the state.If that happens, Bukosky said, she'll either have to stay with friends or move back to the home she still co-owns with her husband, whom she is divorcing. "But it's not a good environment."She wishes the divorce could proceed, but that will have to wait. "I cannot collect alimony until we go to court. I can't afford a lawyer and Legal Aid will not even look at divorces until the pandemic is over," she said.Like Garrett, Bukosky is also looking for work outside her chosen field. She's been applying for jobs and even getting interviews, but so far no offers. "I'm looking for everything. I just need to work." She has friends to lend emotional support, but she's hesitant to open up. "A friend reached out today and I didn't want to tell him how I was doing because I didn't have anything good to say. I'm like a broken record," Bukoski said. "It's just been a terrible year." Humbled by how lucky they've beenThe economic story has been very different for folks like real estate lawyer Paul Levine, veterinarian Danielle Sawyer, and adventure travelers Michael and Melissa Harlow. Levine, who works on both residential and commercial real estate deals, initially saw a huge drop off in business from mid-March through mid-May. But ever since, he said, his practice has been "staggeringly busy... There's a lot of money pouring into the market."While he doesn't know yet whether his total revenue this year will top last year's, he expects it may. And even if it didn't, he still considers himself better off financially because the money that he's saved from not traveling or going out to eat has gone toward his savings and paying bills. "I feel humble and thankful that I can pay my mortgage and pay for my household expenses," Levine said. Sawyer's veterinary practice has seen a 50% uptick in clients because so many people have gotten dogs during the pandemic. It's also because many have done so via Craigslist or through unscrupulous breeders online and they end up with pets who are sick and need medical care. "It's been like one long day for us," Sawyer said. But it's also meant she's had the best year financially since becoming a vet. And that has helped her pay down her school debt and buy the condo she and her toddler daughter now live in.For empty nesters Michael and Melissa Harlow, the pandemic affirmed the wisdom of their decision years ago to pay off debt and downsize their belongings so they could quit their corporate jobs. While they still need to work so they don't have to touch their retirement savings, they do so in ways tied to their love of adventure. For instance, they run an online rental RV service. Business this summer was very good as people sought to find Covid-safe ways to travel, they said. Melissa also works as a freelance voice over artist, which she does from a studio she created in the guest house they rent on a ranch near San Diego.Also, they noted, their savings have increased because they are spending less on travel and other activities this year."I'm grateful we bit the bullet for so many years (downsizing). It was worth the pain ... to be where we are now," Melissa said.Financially steady, but not unaffectedFor some people, the pandemic has meant neither boon nor bust.Originally from the Netherlands, Jan Jansen, a retired physician, and his wife, Catharine, moved to Santa Fe a few years ago, after decades of living and working in Indianapolis. Their income has remained steady -- thanks in part to a rising stock market. And they've ended up spending less because they aren't able to go to restaurants or travel. Instead, they're donating to food banks and giving money through their church. "It's sad to see how a country can completely fail its population,"Jansen said. The main thing they've lost, Jansen said, is a year of their lives. "Our main problem is a lost year, which counts more when your horizon becomes shorter." Meanwhile, federal government employee Leigh Ramunni in Massachusetts said she has lost family members to Covid-19. But she is grateful she didn't lose her job and can work from home, since her husband is no longer working due to a disability.Ramunni noted that she has stocked up on food for six months because she has asthma and tries not to go out much. But she is also donating more -- both in terms of money and food."We're lucky to have more, so we have given more," she said. "We count ourselves blessed, but also pray for something positive to emerge... As a rich and powerful nation, we should not have food lines and evictions during a pandemic."(CNN) - The headline has been the same for months: "Agreement in Congress remains elusive on Covid-19 stimulus package." Since at least October, congressional leaders and the White House have engaged in on-again, off-again talks about the shape and size of a deal designed to help people and business weather the devastating economic impacts of the coronavirus.But with increasing signs that the economy isn't bouncing back nearly as fast as anyone would like -- not to mention a national surge in the number of Covid-19 cases -- pressure on Congress to do, well, something has never been higher.So, will they? Do something, I mean? I put that question, and a bunch of others, to CNN's senior congressional correspondent Manu Raju. Our conversation --  conducted via email and lightly edited for flow -- is below.Cillizza: Where are we RIGHT now on a deal?Raju: Right now, we're in a state of uncertainty. It's clear both sides recognize something NEEDS to happen before lawmakers head back for the holidays and wrap up the work of the 116th Congress. But it's still uncertain what negotiators will agree to, whether the leaders on both sides of the aisle will sign off on it, and perhaps the biggest question of them all: Whether President Donald Trump will sign it.Tuesday underscored just how chaotic and tense these talks have been. As a bipartisan group of senators and House members -- who refer to themselves as the "908 coalition" for the $908 billion proposal they're trying to finalize -- were trying to hash out remaining sticking points, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had a different idea. He suggested removing the two sticking points -- liability protections for businesses and others threatened by lawsuits during the pandemic (which he has been demanding) and money for states and cities (which Democrats have been demanding). After that offer was made, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer trashed it almost immediately. Then came word that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin had made a $916 billion offer to Pelosi that put the liability protections and state and local funding back on the table. A few hours later, Pelosi and Schumer rejected that offer in part because it offered $40 billion for jobless benefits, down from the $180 billion being discussed by the bipartisan group of senators, something they called "unacceptable."So where are we at this exact moment? The bipartisan group released a more detailed outline of their proposal Wednesday morning, but it has NO details on state and local aid and liability protections, saying they are continuing to negotiate those provisions. Plus, their outline is just six pages long -- and not detailed bill language, meaning there are many, many more details to sort out.That means there's a ton of work to do to reach an agreement, get buy-in from all sides and get this to the President's desk before the new deadline: December 18.Cillizza: Which plan has a better chance of actually passing: The bipartisan $908 billion one or the new $916 billion one from the White House?Raju: It's going to be a combination of both -- with input from the leadership and the White House. And both plans are light on details. The focus is on the bipartisan plan at the moment, but at some point, the leadership will have to step in and it will have to be a negotiated settlement between the White House and the so-called four corners of Congress: Pelosi, Schumer, McConnell and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy.Cillizza: What's the timeline for getting something done? End of next week? Later? Sooner?Raju: Next week is the drop-dead date at this point.Congress is going to pass a one-week stop-gap resolution to extend the government funding deadline until December 18. They want to attach Covid-19 relief to a massive, omnibus spending bill to keep the government open until October 1, 2021.But that omnibus bill has its own problems, too -- the two sides are at odds on thorny issues that they are trying to resolve. Really, if they want to meet the December 18 deadline, they need to have the outlines of a deal that the Hill leadership and the White House have agreed to by the end of this week because it will take several days to finalize bill language, then they will need to ram it through Congress in just a few days. But doing so will require cooperation from all members in the Senate since any senator can slow down legislation, and that is always a possibility.Cillizza: Who matters most right now? McConnell? Manchin? Someone else?Raju: McConnell and Pelosi are the most important players. Even when McConnell isn't directly involved in the talks, his buy-in is essential to getting a deal done. And Pelosi needs to sell her caucus to accept a deal that is far smaller in size and scope than what she has been demanding for months. Typically, there's a center of the universe in negotiations -- Pelosi and Mnuchin for example in recent talks; at the moment, it's this bipartisan group. But that will shift eventually to the leadership.Cillizza: Finish this sentence: "When Congress leaves for the holidays, the most likely thing they have passed on Covid relief is __________." Now, explain.Raju: "When Congress leaves for the holidays, the most likely thing they have passed on Covid relief is vaccine distribution."Even with so much needed right now, from small business loans to extending expiring jobless benefits, vaccine distribution is the one that is least controversial and most urgent. Neither side wants to be blamed for not providing the resources to ensure the American public is vaccinated from Covid-19. The bipartisan group proposes $3.4 billion for grants for states and localities and another $2.6 billion for vaccine distribution and infrastructure. We'll see how much they ultimately agree to include in the spending package.Austin, Texas  (CNN Business) - SpaceX's massive steel rocket prototype, an early iteration of the technology CEO Elon Musk hopes will be used to put humans on Mars, soared over South Texas Thursday afternoon in the highest and riskiest test flight of the vehicle yet. It wasn't as simple as a rocket shooting for the stars, however. Here's everything that happened. Or at least, what we could see.Starship SN8, as the prototype is called, climbed through the air for nearly five minutes as it flew out over the Gulf of Mexico before steering itself back to the launch site where SpaceX hoped it would make a pinpoint landing reminiscent of how the company lands its workhorse Falcon 9 rockets. The flight was intended to help SpaceX collect data about how SN8 could reenter the Earth's atmosphere after returning from an extraterrestrial mission and steer itself to a precise landing point.Starship SN8, however, did not survive this test. In the final stretch of its Wednesday flight an issue with the fueling system caused the rocket to slam into the ground and erupt in a colorful explosion.Musk still chocked the mission up as a win."Fuel header tank pressure was low during landing burn, causing touchdown velocity to be high & RUD, but we got all the data we needed!" Musk said in a tweet. (RUD stands for "Rapid Unscheduled Disassembly," or, in layperson terms, a rocket explosion.)SpaceX is known to embrace fiery mishaps during the rocket development process. The company maintains that such accidents are the quickest and most efficient way of gathering data, an approach that sets the company apart from its close partner NASA, which prefers slow, methodical testing over dramatic flare ups.But Wednesday's test flight went much better than many had expected after Musk gave the vehicle a one-in-three chance of surviving the test flight.LaunchAfter unexpectedly stopping the countdown clock during a prior launch attempt on Wednesday, SpaceX refueled the SN8 and set its sights on a 4:40 pm CT takeoff time. That was just 20 minutes before SpaceX's launch window closed. The company must launch within a designated time frame that is sanctioned by the Federal Aviation Administration in order to ensure that planes or boat traffic doesn't interfere with the launch.Large puffs of steam could be seen venting off the rocket during fueling. But that's just oxygen, which inside the rocket is kept so cold that it remains liquid while excess oxygen boils off the sides when it touches the warm Texas air. Because spacecraft don't have atmospheric oxygen feeding their engines in outer space, rocket engines must carry their own oxygen on board to interact with the fuel, giving the engines their fiery thrust. SpaceX's Starship is powered by liquid oxygen — also known as LOX — and methane. SpaceX opted for methane, rather than a fuel known as RP-1, because methane fuel can, theoretically, be produced on the moon or Mars. That makes the gas a wise choice for rockets destined for long-distance journeys into the solar system. When the countdown clock hit zero, the SN8 fired up all three of its massive Raptor rocket engines, each of which can give off up to six  times as much thrust as an engine on a Boeing 747, according to SpaceX's website.SN8 then left the launch pad, and began its ascent over the South Texas landscape. Engine shut downLess than two minutes into the flight, one of the three Raptor engines powered down. Because SpaceX did not release a detailed flight plan for this test, it's not clear if everything functioned as intended. But Musk suggested on Twitter that the first leg of this flight had gone exactly as planned. About a minute later, another of the three Raptor engines shut off, leaving one engine to power the rest of SN8's climb. Nearly five minutes into the flight, the final Raptor engine stopped firing. SpaceX's goal was for rocket to reach 40,000 feet or more, though it's not clear exactly how high the vehicle traveled. After reaching the apex of its course, the SN8 began to roll, reorienting the rocket to fall sideways.'Flopping' back to EarthThat mirrored exactly how Musk described the Starship's intended landing method during a September 2019 media event. He billed it as a unique maneuver that would see the rocket dive back through the air with its belly pointed toward the Earth as its four fins shift slightly to keep it steady. It's a maneuver Musk said is intended to mimic how a skydiver would fall through the air, rather than the straight vertical descent to Earth that SpaceX's Falcon 9 rockets employ when they're coming in for landings.As the Starship approaches the ground, the rocket would ignite its engines and the vehicle would swoop back to an upright position just before touchdown. To make that possible, SN8's Raptor engines are designed to "gimbal," which means to pivot slightly from side to side, and "throttle," which means adjusting the amount of thrust each of the engines emits, giving the rocket maximum precision as it maneuvers through the air. The SN8 also has a reaction control system, or RCS, which refers to small thrusters mounted on the rocket's exterior. Those, too, help guide the craft's acrobatics, and may be seen firing near the top of the rocket. The SN8 did follow that motion almost exactly on Tuesday. Shortly before touchdown, all three Raptor engines powered back on, the rocket reoriented, and it approached its designated landing site with precision.But, because of a last-minute issue with the pressure in the SN8's fuel tank, the landing did not go as smoothly as intended. Apple-green flames — a result of chemicals burning off into the engine flame — were quickly engulfed by a giant plume of fire and smoke as the SN8 slammed into the ground.New York  (CNN Business) - As coronavirus vaccines begin rolling out — a crucial step in ending the pandemic that has killed more than 1.5 million people and caused economic pain around the globe — Melinda Gates is urging leaders of wealthy countries not to forget about the rest of the world."Everybody needs this vaccine," Gates, co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, told CNN's Poppy Harlow in a broadcast interview Thursday. "If we only get it to the high-income countries, this disease is going to bounce around. We're going to see twice as many deaths. And our recovery of our economies is going to be much slower than if we get the vaccine out to everybody."The Gates Foundation on Thursday said it plans to commit an additional $250 million to support the "research, development and equitable delivery" of tools to fight Covid-19, including tests, treatments and vaccines. The announcement brings the group's total commitments to the global Covid-19 response to $1.75 billion. Gates' comments also come as the US Food and Drug Administration's Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee meets to review data from Pfizer on its coronavirus vaccine and make a recommendation to the FDA about whether to authorize it. The first shipments of the Pfizer vaccine are set to be delivered on December 15, according to an Operation Warp Speed document obtained by CNN earlier this month. The United Kingdom on Tuesday became the first country to begin vaccinating its citizens using the vaccine developed by Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech.  "If you think about where we were on March 30th, I don't think any of us would have predicted that by the end of December, or mid-December, we'd have a vaccine," she said. "It is an incredible tribute to the vaccine community, to the scientists who have worked night and day on these vaccines to even get us to this point. It is a really exciting moment for the country." But approval of a vaccine is only the beginning. The shots will then need to be manufactured and distributed around the country — a complex process that's expected to take months — and in the meantime, people must continue taking preventative measures. And that process needs to happen not only in the United States, but around the world. Gates said she was "incredibly disappointed" by President Donald Trump's signing of a largely symbolic executive order on Tuesday aimed at prioritizing the shipment of the coronavirus vaccine to Americans before other nations — the Gates have previously warned about so-called "vaccine nationalism." She said she is more optimistic about the incoming Joe Biden administration's approach and has been in touch with the President-elect about his plans. "One of the things I know about President-elect Biden is he's not just thinking about how to keep Americans safe, he's thinking about global leadership about how to keep everybody safe," Gates said. "We will add more money to our economy if we get everybody else vaccinated. He knows if you want to get manufacturing back up and running, you want people to be able to travel ... you've got to get everybody vaccinated [worldwide]."Ending Covid-19Ensuring broad distribution and delivery of Covid-19 vaccines, treatments and tests is a key focus of the financial commitment the Gates Foundation announced Thursday. Part of the money will be earmarked to buy 200 million vaccine doses and 120 million antigen tests for low- and middle-income countries, Gates said. The foundation is also working closely with Gavi, a global organization partnering with governments to ensure vaccines are available in such countries. "It takes a lot of planning to get vaccine out to these remote, rural areas," Gates said. "The planning has to start now if, in fact, we're going to get vaccine there. It's got to be purchased, manufactured, and then there has to be money there for it to be purchased. And so the world needs to put up more money to make sure that low-income countries can get the vaccine."She lauded European countries that have pledged funds, along with the Gates Foundation, to help purchase vaccines for poor countries. In the United States, the head of distribution for Operation Warp Speed said last month that every American who wants a Covid-19 vaccine will receive one by June. Gates said she expects that milestone to be reached by sometime this summer, if not by June 1, because other types of vaccines in development are easier to manufacture and production can be scaled up quickly.  "Summer timeframe, yes, there should be lots of vaccine available in the United States," Gates said, adding that there are still some "dark months" ahead before much of the country is vaccinated. Moving forward from Covid-19A full economic recovery in the United States will likely require more than an effective and widely distributed vaccine. Unemployment claims remain well above their pre-pandemic levels and recovery is slowing as case numbers continue rising. Women have been hit especially hard because of their outsized presence in affected industries and their family caretaking responsibilities.  Gates encouraged policymakers to consider a long term solution that will ensure women aren't at risk again should another crisis occur. She has called on Biden to appoint a caregiving "czar" to examine the issue. "What I want to see is somebody at a high level in the administration coordinating across agencies," Gates said, adding that a $50 billion investment could help revitalize US child and eldercare infrastructure. She said the country would also benefit from a robust paid family and medical leave policy. "One in four women say they're thinking of downshifting their career because they can't make it all work between childcare and elderly care, this isn't some side issue," Gates said. "What keeps our economy running? Not just men in jobs, but women. Women are 88% of our healthcare workforce. They're over 60% of the frontline cashiers. They're over 70% of our teachers. So I think we want women to return to work. We've got to fix this." Another takeaway from the pandemic that must be addressed, according to Gates: disinformation. False claims about the virus, preventative measures, vaccines and even the Gates themselves have run rampant on social media and elsewhere on the internet throughout the pandemic. "Disinformation can equal death," Gates said. "If you don't do the right things to keep yourself safe, you or a loved one may die. And that's why it's so discouraging to see so much disinformation spread out there."Gates, who previously worked as a general manager at Microsoft and whose husband co-founded Microsoft, called on tech companies to take responsibility for their role in the spread of false information. She also said regulators and policymakers need to "catch up" with the rapid growth of social media. "That is something that Congress is going to need to wrestle with: What is appropriate regulation for these platforms?" Gates said. Editor's Note: Joe Drape, a sportswriter for The New York Times, is the author of the new book "The Saint Makers: Inside the Catholic Church and How a War Hero inspired a Journey of Faith." The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. View more opinion at CNN.(CNN) - On the evening of March 27, Pope Francis acknowledged that the faith of many was being tested as the world was seemingly coming apart. He appeared in an empty St. Peter's Square to deliver a solemn "Urbi et Orbi" address, "to the city of Rome and the world." He spoke on the coronavirus and on the gospel story of Jesus calming the storm. The day he spoke was the deadliest day of the coronavirus in Italy. The Pope stood alone under a canopy as rain bounced off the ancient cobblestones. He was bathed in the blue lights of police cruisers; the police were enforcing a lockdown across the city. Pope Francis knew that Italy, and the world, was anxious and terrified.  I was, too.  But as I listened to Pope Francis remind us not to be afraid, I also had another source of comfort: the Rev. Emil Kapaun, a priest who has been dead nearly 70 years.  I had spent years reporting and contemplating his life for a book. A country priest from Kansas who died in a Korean prisoner of war camp, Father Kapaun is beloved around the world by men and women of all faiths. In 2013, he was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor by President Barack Obama. Now, he is on the long, slow path to sainthood in the Catholic Church.  Saints are in one sense the church's superheroes, having lived lives of surpassing faith and virtue. But none of them is superhuman -- like Father Kapaun, they are all men and women whose mortal lives are worth studying and imitating, and also ultimately relatable.  Watching the Pope from my home in New York City, with my son remote learning, my wife making Zoom calls -- and all of us, frankly, knowing that more terrible and trying times were ahead -- I was grateful that I had spent this time with Father Kapaun, examining his life and, yes, praying to him. On the battlefields and in the prison camps of Korea in 1950, Father Kapaun saw the lost looks and terrible darkness in the faces of his fellow GIs. He reassured them that together they were going to make their way through their tribulation. When they were hungry, weak and ill, he conjured comfort from thin air, offering imaginary coffee to drink and ribeye steaks to taste. He scavenged real food for them as well and engineered tools out of scrap. He shook them awake from their selfish ways when they wanted to hoard food or be cruel to one another. Camp No. 5, where Father Kapaun died, was a sick and twisted prison, but with prayer and defiance, kindness and love, the priest made it survivable for many of his men. His example showed them strength that they could receive by turning to God. He did not care whether his men were Jewish, Muslim or Baptist, but he did want them to embrace their faith, to free themselves from fear and to find hope. Did Father Kapaun imitate the life of Christ? Absolutely, right down to forgiving his Chinese captors and then asking them for forgiveness even though they had made his and his men's daily existence a living hell. His final words were a question. "Forgive me?" he said to the officer in charge at the door to the Death House — a ward where gravely ill prisoners were taken — knowing full well that he would never walk out. His cause of death is unknown. Is Father Kapaun a saint? To the GIs he served with, he is. There are tens of thousands — perhaps even hundreds of thousands — of people from Kansas and beyond who recite a simple prayer — "Father Kapaun, help me" — when their troubles become hard to bear alone. We do not have to look far to see the virtues Father Kapaun embodied in ordinary people living among us. The doctors and nurses who show up every day to battle the pandemic with determination and compassion. The "essential workers,"  many of them immigrants and poor people of color, who go out into the world — show up to work every day — keeping commerce and the economy going while the lucky rest of us stay home and safe. And all of us who smile at strangers, reach out to the lonely, and do our best to keep our families close. Becoming a saint in the Catholic Church is a long, expensive and complicated process that has evolved over the centuries. It usually requires verification of at least two miracles, in which a person recovers from a life-threatening disease in a way that defies all medical evidence, after the friends and family of the sick one implore the candidate for sainthood to intercede with God for the cure. Vatican historians, theologians and cardinals will consider the merits of Father Kapaun's case. Someday, most likely decades from now, whoever is pope will make the decision. The average time from a candidate's death to canonization is 181 years. Father Kapaun died in 1951.  While we wait, let's call Father Kapaun a hero if not a saint, a thoroughly modern and healing example for our time. Service, courage, and forgiveness for all were the hallmarks of Father Kapaun's life. They are in short supply in these troubled days. Yes, Father Kapaun lived a life worth imitating — not for us to become saints with a capital "S."  No, but by performing the smallest acts of kindness, we will make our communities a better place.   "He was just an average guy. He was just a poor Kansas farm boy," Father John Hotze, another priest from Kansas who had spent much of his adult life promoting the cause of Father Kapaun, told me. "He had nothing, and he was able to use what little he had in service to others. If he becomes a saint, then there's hope for each and every one of us to be a saint." I will hope against hope that I am still around when Father Kapaun is finally made a saint. Until then, he will remain in my prayers. I pray that I remain in his.(CNN) - As the world waits for pharmaceutical giants Pfizer and Moderna to deliver their Covid-19 vaccines to cities around the globe, the job of getting millions of doses to some of the most out of-the-way-places in the US presents its own set of unprecedented obstacles.  In Sioux Falls, South Dakota, one health care system has spent months preparing for the challenge.Sanford Health System -- which has over 400 clinics and senior care locations, many in small towns and farming communities in the upper Midwest -- has prioritized making sure the vaccines that are delivered are kept safe until they are administered.Jesse Breidenbach, Sanford Health's senior executive director of pharmacy, said  that entails keeping the vaccine cold. Very cold.  "When the vaccine comes it'll be on dry ice," Breidenbach told CNN.  "We'll put it into the minus-80 degrees (Celsius) freezer and then when we get orders from our clinics to distribute that vaccine, we'll pack it in coolers on ice and then monitor that temperature...until it's given to the patient."Minus-80 degrees Celsius is about 112 degrees below zero Fahrenheit.   Sanford, which has a coverage area of more than 200 thousand square miles over multiple states, purchased eight of the ultra-cold freezers months ago. Each freezer costs about $15,000.  One freezer type is capable of sustaining temperatures around minus 100 degrees Fahrenheit, which is what is needed to store the Pfizer vaccine. Sanford Health officials said they now have the capability to store 500,000 Pfizer doses.  The other type of freezer will store the Moderna vaccine, which can be safely stored at around minus 4 degrees Fahrenheit. Sanford expects to store up to 1 million Moderna doses, according to Sanford spokesperson Angela Dejene.South Dakota to receive 8,000 doses of vaccine next weekStatewide, South Dakota is anticipating almost 8,000 doses of the vaccine next week, and Breidenbach said they'll start storing them in their service region even before the FDA approves its Emergency Use Authorization.   "Pre-placement means we're actually going to receive vaccine before we even get the green light from the states or the (US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) to actually start vaccinating our staff and patients," Breidenbach said.  Each state will get it's own allotment of the vaccine -- so Sanford will not be allowed to transport it across state lines.  Instead, the health care system will rely on so-called "mini-hubs," where they have installed ultra-cold storage freezers in regions with higher rates of positive cases.  Once removed from the freezers, the Pfizer vaccine can survive up to five days in refrigeration. Add to that the likelihood that Sanford will expand its already large swath of its upper Midwest territory while delivering and administering the vaccines, and you've got an unprecedented logistical challenge.  "We'll have to be ... able to adjust, but the biggest part of our advantage is our courier network," Dean Weber, who heads the corporate supply chain for Sanford Health System, told CNN. "Our courier network drives about 11,000 miles a day. It's something like 200,000 square miles. I've heard people say that it's about the size of Texas, but it's basically the entire western side of Minnesota, all of South and North Dakota, northern Nebraska and western Iowa so it's a large geographical footprint."That fleet of largely minivan-driving couriers normally drives about 3.5 million every year, according to Dejene.    Nursing students will help administer the vaccineAs shipments of the vaccine start to increase over the coming weeks and months, Sanford also plans to amend normal protocol for who can administer the vaccine in order to keep up with the massive demand for it.  "We do have nursing students helping us step forward to administer the vaccine," said Kelly Hefti, vice president of nursing and clinical services at Sanford Health.  "And that partnership that we've had for a really long time with our universities, our school of nursing, the students that have stepped forward with their faculty to help us administer the vaccine was a really logical ask for us."Morgan Hanson is among the group of nursing students who is helping the health system's vaccine administering."I'm not on the frontlines right now but I see that impact it has on those frontline workers," the Augustana University nursing student said of the vaccine.     "Anything that we can do to help ease their stress, and ease the sickness in the hospitals right now, I think it's very important from a nursing student's standpoint." As for doctors, the vaccine provides another weapon in what has seemed like a never-ending fight.   "In many hospitals around the country, we have healthcare providers that got infected because they're caring for patients that got infected as well as because they're acquiring it in the community, and they have to be out of work," said Dr. Santiago Lopez, a pediatric infectious disease specialist at Sanford Children's Hospital.  "We are losing that workforce that we are in much need of at this point."(CNN) - There's not much suspense going into Thursday's meeting of the US Food and Drug Administration's vaccine advisers, who are discussing emergency use authorization for Pfizer and BioNTech's coronavirus vaccine.The EUA is widely expected and has been telegraphed with unusual frankness from the top of the FDA on down. "Our team has done their initial analysis, and we do feel that preliminarily that the success criteria have been met," FDA Commissioner Dr. Stephen Hahn told CNN Tuesday.But the FDA has promised to listen to the advice of its Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee, made up of independent vaccine experts, infectious disease specialists, industry representatives and a consumer representative -- 17 regular members and 13 temporary voting members. The meeting begins at 9 a.m. Thursday, and a committee vote could come in the afternoon.The only real questions will be about whether the advisers recommend restrictions to the EUA -- perhaps leaving children off the lIst for now, for example. They'll also discuss how to conduct the post-EUA safety surveillance and whether to offer the shot to clinical trial volunteers who got placebo doses.Unprecedented speed for vaccinesThe US federal government is supporting the development of seven coronavirus vaccines -- four of them in large Phase 3 clinical trials. Two, made by Pfizer and Moderna, have now applied for EUAs.All have been developed with unprecedented speed. The virus known as SARS-CoV-2 was only identified in January but just weeks after it was isolated, the Chinese government shared its genetic sequence and that was enough to get work started on vaccines.Companies, academic researchers and the federal government had been working to develop so-called platforms that could be used to quickly turn around new vaccines. The first two to the finish line, Pfizer's and Moderna's, use a plug-and-play technology involving genetic material known as messenger RNA.The approach had already been tried out against infectious diseases such as Zika and against cancer as well, so researchers were confident it was safe. It is also far faster than old-fashioned vaccine development techniques such as, for instance, influenza vaccines, which require samples of the actual virus which must be grown in specially chosen chicken eggs, purified and made into a vaccine -- an uncertain and slow process.The mRNA vaccines need just a short stretch of genetic code and employ the human body itself to make its own vaccine. Tests in tens of thousands of volunteers starting in the summer showed it elicited an immune response and appeared to do so safely."We've shortened vaccine timelines here without compromising vaccine safety and efficacy," Dr. Peter Marks, the head of the FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, which approves vaccines, told an American Medical Association webinar."The fact that we have so many cases of Covid-19 right now, it's so unfortunate for us as a country. The only upside to it is when you are doing a clinical trial with an endpoint that's a clinical infectious disease endpoint, it's been easy to get to those endpoints because there's just so many cases," Marks added."By August to October of this year it became clearer to us that the first vaccines that came through would indeed likely be granted emergency use authorization because of the incredibly pressing nature of this crisis."Getting 'down and dirty' with vaccine dataPfizer's vaccine does have what researchers have described as breathtaking efficacy. The company released its first data in media releases, but turned over tens of thousands of pages of it data to the FDA for closer study.Drug companies usually write up summaries of their findings for regulators, but the FDA also asks for all of the primary source material -- the charts, even each volunteer's individual record. Marks said staffers have studied that."We are the ones that actually don't just look at the companies' tables. We actually get down and dirty and we look at the actual adverse event reports, the bad spelling errors that are made by physicians sometimes, et cetera," Marks said."They had 95% effectiveness across a wide range of individuals," he told the AMA. The FDA published its summary and Pfizer's summary on the Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee website Tuesday, and the 95% efficacy claims hold up."Vaccine efficacy against confirmed COVID-19 occurring at least 7 days after Dose 2 was 94.6%, with 9 and 169 cases in the BNT162b2 (the vaccine's experimental name) and placebo groups respectively," the FDA review document reads.In other words, nine people who got the vaccine developed coronavirus infections with symptoms after the second shot, while 169 people who got placebo shots became infected.The committee will run through all this data, but members will have read it all before Thursday's meeting, which will be livestreamed on YouTube, Twitter and the FDA's website.How the meeting unfoldsStaff at the FDA's Office of Vaccines Research and Review will run down the FDA's study of Pfizer's data. Dr. Nancy Messonnier, who heads the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, will review the CDC's plans for safety monitoring and other CDC officials will update on the pandemic itself and plans for distributing the vaccine.Stanford University's Dr. Steven Goodman will talk about what it means for clinical trials going forward if a vaccine is approved. He'll address the question of asking people to forgo getting a vaccine known to be protective in order to test an unproven one.Other possible questions are whether to include pregnant women and children in an EUA."At this point I would say, we may not have the data we need to actually be able to advise pregnant women, and we may need additional study," Hahn said. The committee members will almost certainly discuss allergy warnings out of Britain's vaccination campaign, as well.And the National Vaccine Advisory Committee asked the FDA to leave children out of an EUA. "The NVAC warns against issuing an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for COVID-19 vaccines in children, considering that children typically experience generally mild disease, except for multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), a rare but serious condition that causes inflammation and various symptoms such as abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, neck pain, rash, tiredness, and bloodshot eyes," the group said last week.Pfizer will also present its data. Then the committee votes whether to recommend authorization. But that doesn't mean the vaccine will be authorized immediately. The decision comes from the FDA, which typically follows the advisory committee's recommendation."One question that will come up is how fast will we see a vaccine authorized after that," FDA's Marks told the AMA."It will depend on the discussion at the advisory committee but we are hoping that within about a week afterwards we will see an authorization if everything goes well for each of those," Marks said.It could come even sooner. In anticipation of an EUA, the CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices has scheduled emergency meetings for Friday and Sunday. This committee -- which is separate from FDA's advisory committee -- will recommend whether the CDC should offer the vaccine to the American public. Once the CDC accepts that recommendation, healthcare workers may start giving people their fisrt doses of Pfizer vaccine.The VRPBAC is scheduled to do it all over again next week, with a meeting December 17 to discuss Moderna's EUA application.Washington  (CNN) - The US Department of Defense is planning to withdraw most support for CIA counter-terror missions by the beginning of next year, in a move expected to have a broad effect on the scope of the intelligence agency's paramilitary operations, a senior defense official and former senior administration official with direct knowledge of the move told CNN. Acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller informed CIA Director Gina Haspel of the decision in a letter this week.The US military provides a wide range of support to CIA paramilitary operations, including air transportation, logistics and medical evacuation. The changes, which will take place by January 5, involve returning DOD personnel detailed to the CIA and some military equipment, including Predator drones.The move was first reported by Defense One, citing multiple sources. The CIA and Pentagon did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment. The move would be the latest major policy change since President Donald Trump initiated a major personnel shakeup at the Pentagon following his election loss to Joe Biden. The Trump administration has announced troop withdrawals from Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia and has jettisoned much of the Pentagon's civilian leadership in recent weeks, replacing officials with a slew of political loyalists in a wave of disruption as his administration winds to a close. Since firing Defense Secretary Mark Esper by tweet November 9, the President has ousted at least three other top officials and replaced them with perceived loyalists and targeted two advisory boards.A former senior administration official told CNN the Biden administration plans to reverse the move. News of the plan also comes after CNN reported that a CIA operator was killed last month in an operation in Somalia, according to a senior administration official familiar with the matter. The officer was wounded in an operation in the country and later died, the official said.The identity of the officer has not been made public but the source said the officer was a former Navy SEAL.Last week the administration confirmed plans to withdraw almost all the troops from the country by early 2021.US Special Operations forces have been embedded with the Somali National Army, assisting in the fight against the militant group Al-Shabaab. As well as advising on airstrikes and ground assaults, the Navy SEAL-led team's primary task is to train and build Somalia its own elite light infantry force.While US military advisers in Somalia typically seek to let Somali forces take the lead during operations, there have been incidents where US forces have found themselves in combat situations.In September, a US service member was injured in the country when Al-Shabaab attacked US and Somali forces. And in August, the US military carried out an airstrike targeting Al-Shabaab fighters in the vicinity of Dar as Salam, after local US-backed forces came under fire from a building.A Pentagon Inspector General report released this year described the conflict in Somalia as being at a "stalemate," with US-backed Somali government forces continuing to battle Al-Shabaab, with the insurgent group continuing to target Somali and international forces in the country's southern provinces.Al-Shabaab is estimated to command between 5,000 and 10,000 fighters, according to estimates from Africa Command and the Defense Intelligence Agency.Though US military advisers have been in Somalia since at least 2013, the effort got a major boost under the Trump administration, which volunteered to undertake the Danab advisory mission in 2017 in addition to expanding drone strikes.Washington  (CNN) - A bipartisan group of lawmakers is trying to inch closer to an agreement on a federal coronavirus relief package, but it does not currently include cash payments like the ones sent to more than 160 million Americans earlier in the year. Rather, the proposed deal focuses on unemployment benefits, aid for small businesses and other targeted assistance rather than direct payments to all Americans -- despite a last-minute push by progressive members of Congress, as well as Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri, in support of another round of $1,200 payments. The group, which started to roll out parts of its bill on Wednesday, is trying to keep the cost of the package below $1 trillion in order to garner Republican support. The stimulus payments could cost at least $300 billion, depending on how many people would be eligible and how much they'd be sent. A White House proposal put forward late Tuesday by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin included $600 direct payments, but at the expense of an additional $300 a week in unemployment benefits. Lawmakers on both sides view those benefits as essential and have said dropping them in exchange for direct payments is a non-starter. Congress is racing to get something done before the end of the year when even more aid programs it approved in March are set to expire, including two other key pandemic jobless assistance measures and eviction protections. With increasing signs that the economic recovery is faltering, the pressure has never been higher. The bipartisan group continues to hammer out details, especially on state funding and liability protection for employers -- and party leaders still need to agree to what is brought for a vote on the floor. Here's what the bipartisan proposal includes as of Wednesday:Unemployment benefitsThe jobless would receive $300 a week for 16 weeks -- from the end of December into April, under the deal. The amount is half of the earlier federal boost, which ran out at the end of July.Also, the agreement calls for 16-week extensions of two other pandemic unemployment programs that were created in the CARES Act in March. Both are currently set to expire at the end of the year, affecting an estimated 12 million people.The Pandemic Unemployment Assistance program expands jobless benefits to gig workers, freelancers, independent contractors, the self-employed and certain people affected by the coronavirus. The Pandemic Emergency Unemployment Compensation program provides an additional 13 weeks of payments to those who exhaust their regular state benefits.Small business loansThe bill would provide $300 billion to the Paycheck Protection Program so that some of the hardest-hit small businesses could apply for a second loan. The program stopped taking applications for the first round of loans in August.Health care, vaccinesHospitals and health care providers would get an additional $35 billion to help pay for expenses and cover lost revenue due to the coronavirus pandemic. Lawmakers already allocated $175 billion in the spring to the Provider Relief Fund, which also compensates hospitals caring for uninsured coronavirus patients.The agreement also provides $6 billion for vaccine development and distribution. Some of the money would go to states and localities and some would go to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. States would get another $7 billion for coronavirus testing and tracing.Extend student loan payment pauseThe bill would extend a pause on federal student loan payments through April 30. Borrowers have not had to make payments since March, but that protection currently expires on January 31. Funding for schoolsThe bill would provide $82 billion in aid for K-12 schools and colleges. Earlier proposals from Republicans and Democrats called for at least $100 billion in aid for schools. It also carves out $6.25 billion for broadband development and $3 billion to help schools provide hotspots and devices for students who might not have internet at home for virtual learning. An additional $10 billion is included to support child care providers that have struggled because of the pandemic. Rental assistanceThe bill would extend the eviction protection set to expire at the end of the year until January 31. It also provides $25 billion in rental assistance to states, local governments and Native American tribes.Nutrition assistanceThe agreement would boost individual food stamp benefits by 15% for four months -- a measure that Democrats have advocated for since the pandemic began but never made it into prior relief packages.It would also expand the Pandemic-EBT program to families with children in child care. It now provides money to low-income families with school-age children in lieu of the free and reduced-price meals they would have received in school.The deal also would provide more funding for food banks and food pantries through The Emergency Food Assistance Program. And it would offer more nutrition assistance for senior citizens, young adults living in emergency shelters, Puerto Rico and certain other territories and those in the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) program.Aid for airlinesThe bill would extend the Payroll Support Program, which provides loans to airlines to support the pay and benefits of workers, through March 31. It would also provide additional funding for airports, bus companies, public transit systems and Amtrak. State and local aidThe agreement calls for providing $160 billion to state, local and tribal governments as the basis for good faith negotiations.This piece of the proposal has been among the most contentious, with Democrats calling for far more assistance to states struggling with lower tax revenues due to the pandemic. But Republicans have resisted providing additional aid beyond the $150 billion in its March relief bill, which could only be used for coronavirus-related expenses. GOP lawmakers have said they don't want to bail out states that have mismanaged their finances.The National Governors Association, which had been pressing for $500 billion in state aid, last week said that it supported the bipartisan framework as an interim measure.US Postal Service aidThe deal calls for modifying the CARES Act to specify that the Treasury Department will provide the United States Postal Service with $10 billion without requiring repayment. Democrats had wanted to give the postal service additional aid.(CNN) - President Donald Trump asked the Supreme Court on Wednesday to block millions of votes from four battleground states that voted for President-elect Joe Biden.Trump's request came in a filing with the court asking to intervene in a lawsuit brought by Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton seeking to invalidate millions of votes cast in Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.The President is being represented by a new attorney, John Eastman, who is known for recently pushing a racist conspiracy theory questioning whether Vice President-elect Kamala Harris was eligible for the role because her parents were immigrants.The move from Trump comes just a day after the high court denied a request from Pennsylvania Republicans to block certification of the commonwealth's election results. The one-line order was issued with no noted dissents or comment from any of the nine justices. The President for weeks has pushed increasingly desperate appeals and baseless conspiracy theories about his second term being stolen. "Our Country is deeply divided in ways that it arguably has not been seen since the election of 1860," the petition states. "There is a high level of distrust between the opposing sides, compounded by the fact that, in the election just held, election officials in key swing states, for apparently partisan advantage, failed to conduct their state elections in compliance with state election law." Echoing arguments made by Texas, Trump says the battleground states used the pandemic "as an excuse" and "ignored or suspended the operation of numerous state laws designed to protect the integrity of the ballot."He asks the court to block the states from using "constitutionally infirm 2020 election results" unless the legislatures of the states "review the 2020 election results." He stressed that if any of the states have "already appointed electors to the electoral college using the 2020 election results," the legislatures have the authority to appoint "a new set of electors."Or the election could go to the House, where Trump would presumably win."Defendant States' electors will determine the outcome of the election," the President states. "Alternatively, if Defendant States are unable to certify 38 or more electors, neither candidate will have a majority of the total number of electors in the Electoral College, in which case the election would devolve to the House of Representatives under the Twelfth Amendment."Republicans mixed on lawsuitTrump has been rallying support from fellow Republicans in Washington, with mixed results.Rep. Mike Johnson of Louisiana, a close ally of Trump's, sent an email from a personal email account to every House Republican soliciting signatures for an amicus brief in the long-shot Texas lawsuit. The email said Trump is "anxiously awaiting the final list" to see who signs on to the amicus brief.One House Republican told CNN he was put off by the Johnson email. "Are we the party of list-making now?" the member asked.Attorney George Conway, once a candidate for solicitor general for the Trump administration before becoming a prominent critic, said Tuesday that there was no merit to the Texas-led suit and described the effort as "the most insane thing yet.""For a member of the Supreme Court Bar to do this in the Supreme Court of the United States is absolutely outrageous," Conway said on CNN's "The Lead with Jake Tapper," in reference to Paxton seeking to block election results."It's absurd and an embarrassment. And for a public official, let alone any lawyer, let alone any member of the Supreme Court Bar, to bring this lawsuit is atrocious." Sen. John Cornyn, the senior Texas Republican, told CNN that "I frankly struggle to understand the legal theory of it. Number one, why would a state, even such a great state as Texas, have a say-so on how other states administer their elections? We have a diffused and dispersed system and even though we might not like it, they may think it's unfair, those are decided at the state and local level and not at the national level."Sen. Mitt Romney, a Utah Republican, called the Texas lawsuit "simply madness" and "dangerous and destructive of the cause of democracy.""It's just simply madness. The idea of supplanting the vote of the people with partisan legislators is so completely out of our national character that it's simply mad."Lawsuits from the Trump campaign and GOP allies have been dismissed or dropped at a furious pace. Still, the President's staunchest defenders on Capitol Hill are urging him not to concede even after Biden wins the Electoral College vote next week, calling on him to battle it out all the way to the House floor in January.The four states have until 3 p.m. ET Thursday to respond to the lawsuit. This story has been updated with more details and background.(CNN) - Ellen DeGeneres announced on Thursday that she has tested positive for Covid-19. The popular talk show host tweeted the news from her verified Twitter account. "Hi Everyone," DeGeneres wrote. "I want to let you all know that I tested positive for Covid-19. Fortunately, I'm feeling fine right now. Anyone who has been in close contact with me has been notified, and I am following all proper CDC guidelines. I'll see you all again after the holidays. Please stay healthy and safe.""The Ellen DeGeneres Show" has been back in production with Covid safety protocols in place since September. CNN has reached out to Warner Bros. Television, which produces the show, for additional comment. (CNN and and Warner Bros. Television are both part of  WarnerMedia.)She joins a list of numerous other celebrities who have also tested positive for virus, including Tom Hanks and his wife, Rita Wilson.(CNN) - Archaeologists have uncovered Britain's first 5th century Roman mosaic -- a find of "enormous" historical significance which could change the way historians view the period it dates back to.The mosaic floor was first discovered inside "room 28" at the Chedworth Roman Villa in Gloucestershire, England in 2017, but testing to verify the age of the floor has just been completed, UK conservation charity the National Trust said in a press release Thursday.The date is significant because it had been believed towns and villas fell into decay after being abandoned following an economic crash in the 4th century.Martin Papworth, National Trust archaeologist, said the 5th century marks the end of the Roman era in Britain and the beginning of the Dark Ages -- when society is thought by some historians to have deteriorated in western Europe as a result of the Roman withdrawal.The Dark Ages, according to the National Trust, was also a period from which few documents survive, with archaeological evidence scarce.National Trust researchers used radiocarbon dating -- testing the level of carbon in charcoal and bone found in the area where the mosaic was found -- and pottery analysis to pin down the "unexpected" age of the mosaic at the villa.Chedworth Roman Villa is one of the largest Roman villas known in the country and one of the best preserved, according to the National Trust.After the end of Roman rule in Britain, the army and civil service workers stopped being paid, which in turn triggered "production decline" among the craft and service industries, Papworth said in a statement.The quality of the mosaic design possibly reflects this, as the National Trust said it was of "poorer quality" than those created in the 4th century.However, its existence also indicates that society did not decline as rapidly as first thought, and that "sophisticated life" carried on for longer, particularly in southwestern England where the mosaic was found."It has generally been believed that most of the population turned to subsistence farming to sustain themselves and, after the break with Rome, Britannia's administrative system broke down into a series of local fiefdoms," Papworth added."What is so exciting about the dating of this mosaic at Chedworth is that it is evidence for a more gradual decline. The creation of a new room and the laying of a new floor suggests wealth, and a mosaic industry continuing 50 years later than had been expected."The organization created a video to show the find in greater detail. 'Tremendously exciting'The mosaic was uncovered as part of a six-year program of archaeological research and digs at the Chedworth Roman Villa.Papworth said: "It is interesting to speculate why Chedworth Villa's owners were still living in this style well into the 5th century. It seems that in the West Country, the Romanised way of life was sustained for a while. "Many large, richly decorated Roman Villas have been found in the countryside around Cirencester, which is around 8 miles from Chedworth."Stephen Cosh, a Roman mosaic expert, said in a statement: "I am still reeling from the shock of this dating.""There are very late Roman mosaics in the area for which archeology can only ever say they must be later than a particular date, without being able to say how much later," Cosh added."But none has ever been suspected to be this late. It will be important to research further sites in the region to see whether we can demonstrate a similar refurbishment at other villas which continued to be occupied in the 5th century. But there is no question that this find at Chedworth is of enormous significance -- it's tremendously exciting."(CNN) - Visits to the emergency room for cases of child abuse and neglect of children under 18 years of age dropped by 53% in mid-March compared to the same time frame in 2019, according to a new analysis by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The sharp decline began just days after the federal government declared a national emergency due to Covid-19 and many communities locked down to contain the spread of the virus, according to the report published Thursday in the CDC's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.The decline mirrored a similar drop in calls to child abuse and neglect hotlines during the spring, as stay-at-home orders and social distancing measures kept kids out of sight.Despite the drop, the study found the number of abused children who required hospitalization remained the same as last year, "suggesting that injury severity did not decrease during the pandemic," the CDC researchers said."If a child is really injured or the baby stops breathing due to a head injury, you can bet that parent is going to bring the child in or call 911," said child abuse pediatrician Dr. Lori Frasier, who is division chief of child abuse pediatrics at Penn State Milton Hershey Children's Hospital.What appears to be good news -- a decline in child abuse emergency room visits -- might instead be families failing to bring in children with less significant injuries, said child abuse pediatrician Dr. Robert Sege, who directs the Center for Community-Engaged Medicine at Tufts Children's Hospital in Boston."Most child abuse is caused by neglect, and physical abuse doesn't always cause a kind of serious injury that requires hospitalization," said Sege, who is also a member of the child protection program at Tufts Children's Hospital.An early report from the United Kingdom found a startling increase of abusive head trauma, also known as shaken baby syndrome, at a children's hospital in London just as the UK began to impose a strict lockdown. Abusive head trauma is a serious head injury caused by shaking, hitting, throwing or slamming a baby down on a solid surface, injuring the brain. The injuries can cause life-altering brain damage, even death.There are anecdotal reports of increased violence in the US as well. For example, Frasier said her institution typically sees about one in four children die from abusive head trauma. "This summer I had five abusive head trauma cases that I was involved in, and four died," she said.Hidden child abuse?Child abuse escalates when families are overwhelmed. The pandemic's perfect storm of school closures, social isolation, separation from loved ones, interrupted income and job loss has worried child abuse experts, who fear a hidden epidemic of abuse that has so far gone undetected. Most reports of physical abuse and neglect come from mandated reporters, such as teachers, social workers and pediatricians, who are required by law to report suspected abuse. Yet, when schools shut their doors and doctor visits slowed during the pandemic, no one was available to see and report on what might be happening to children at home.As expected, reports of abuse to child protective services fell dramatically over the course of the pandemic, in some cases up to 70%, according to the CDC report. In Massachusetts, an earlier CNN investigation found reports of alleged child abuse dropped nearly 55% from 2,124 in the first week of March to just 972 by the last full week in April. Connecticut, California, Michigan, Kentucky, New Hampshire and Louisiana have all told CNN they had seen double-digit percentage drops when stay-at-home orders were in place.At the same time, other protective services have also been curtailed during the pandemic, such as home visits by social workers, mandatory court appearances and parenting skills programs.Unclear dataThe drop in emergency room visits due to child abuse occurred during the week of March 15 and continued to remain low during the spring, the CDC study found. The numbers mirrored a similar decline in emergency room visits for any cause, as people choose to use telehealth or forgo medical treatment for fear of catching the virus. Over a three-week period from late March to mid-April, emergency room visits declined by approximately 72% among children younger than 14 years old."This agrees with the experience of myself and my colleagues in child abuse pediatrics -- in general, there was less child abuse during the early phases of the pandemic," Sege said."And there has been a lot of speculation about why that may have happened," he said. "Ideas range from children being more invisible to oversight by child protective services, to adult family members receiving the $1,200 stimulus checks, which may have briefly lowered levels of child poverty in the United States. Childhood poverty is clearly a driver of child abuse." Frasier too saw a reduced volume of child visits at her clinic, but did find that "the percentage of children who were seen for child abuse and neglect dropped less than the overall."That, she said, suggests parents were not bringing their kids for regular injuries or concerns, "but kids who had significant injuries from abuse, still came."Despite the ongoing concern among child abuse workers, available information is still too sparse to illuminate what is truly happening to children when it comes to abuse, Frasier said."I think the data is not yet ready for prime time," she said. "Plus there is an economic hit about to happen that may worsen things for children. We won't really know what happened during the pandemic, till it is over."Washington  (CNN) - Gen. Lloyd Austin, President-elect Joe Biden's choice to lead the Pentagon, is poised to make history as the first Black secretary of defense and is "the person we need in this moment," Biden says -- but first, he will have to overcome resistance from the President-elect's own party.The epic nature of Austin's journey -- from a childhood in deeply segregated Alabama, through a military still plagued with racial inequity, to the pinnacle of US national defense -- might be matched only by the scale of the challenges that would face him there. In tapping Austin, Biden is choosing a former colleague he knows well from years working together during the Obama administration, a period that saw Austin lead US Central Command, serve as vice chief of staff of the Army, and commanding general of US forces in Iraq. Austin and Biden also share a personal link. Biden's son Beau served on Austin's staff in Iraq and the two forged a close relationship there, sitting side by side at Mass almost every Sunday and maintaining the friendship when Beau returned from deployment, according to a source familiar with Biden's decision. 'A comfort level'Biden and Austin have "known each other for a long time," a second source said. "There's a comfort level." This source added that "the historic nature of the pick ... is something Biden is excited about. Especially given the history of the US military being barrier breakers in a lot of areas."Biden himself cast his choice in light of unprecedented challenges facing the military and his deep familiarity with Austin, a fellow Catholic. "In his more than 40 years in the United States Army, Austin met every challenge with extraordinary skill and profound personal decency," Biden wrote in The Atlantic. "He is a true and tested soldier and leader. I've spent countless hours with him, in the field and in the White House Situation Room. I've sought his advice, seen his command, and admired his calm and his character. He is the definition of a patriot.""Austin's many strengths and his intimate knowledge of the Department of Defense and our government are uniquely matched to the challenges and crises we face," Biden wrote. "He is the person we need in this moment."Biden will formally introduce Austin as his nominee at a Wednesday event in Wilmington, Delaware.If Austin gets the job, the former battlefield commander would join an elite fraternity of African Americans who have risen to the executive branch at a time when a charged national debate about racial justice is forcing a reckoning in the military as well.As a decorated officer known for his deep public reserve, but not nimble political instincts, Austin would be stepping onto the global stage as he navigates the work of reshaping the Defense Department while progressive Democrats call to scale back military funding.At the Pentagon, he would inherit an institution strained by political tensions over the last four years, analysts say, one that is juggling rising threats such as China, ongoing risks from the likes of North Korea, the need to develop new capabilities in cyber, space and artificial intelligence, and manage the distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine as the pandemic continues to ravage the US."He's going to have his work cut out for him," said Eric Edelman, a former undersecretary of defense for policy, diplomat and White House official.Austin's "trailblazing career," as Biden put it, suggests he has the drive and work ethic required. The 67-year-old was born in Mobile, Alabama, in 1953, a time of sharply truncated opportunity for African Americans. He retired in 2016 as a four-star general awarded the military's third highest military decoration for valor, five of the highest non-combat related military awards and a slew of other honors.'Only the sixth'Defense Department data shows that while Black service members represent 19% of all enlisted personnel, they make up only 9% of the mostly White, male officer corps. Biden noted in The Atlantic that Austin was "the 200th person ever to attain the rank of an Army four-star general, but only the sixth African American." Austin got there through West Point, the elite military academy that is only now beginning to come to terms with a legacy of racism. He went on later to earn a Master's in Education from Auburn University and a Master's in Business Management from Webster University. Austin has had some stumbles along the way. His tenure as commander at CENTCOM coincided with the rise of ISIS, a period that witnessed the terror group's capture of major cities in Syria and Iraq.At a 2015 Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, Austin received a stinging rebuke from then-Chairman Sen. John McCain for his relatively optimistic assessment about the fight against ISIS despite the group's major advancements on the battlefield."There haven't been any dramatic gains on either side," Austin told the hearing, speaking about a year after ISIS captured Iraq's second largest city, Mosul."I've never seen a hearing that is as divorced from the reality of every outside expert and what you are saying," McCain retorted.Unlike some of his predecessors and successors at US Central Command, Austin never publicly expressed criticism or opposition to administration policy, a reserve that likely made him an attractive pick for Biden, who famously clashed with military brass at the start of the Obama administration over the size of the military footprint in places such as Afghanistan.Now, as Austin looks to lead the world's largest employer, with 1.3 million active duty troops and a total of more than 2.8 million employees, his first hurdles will lie in the US Senate. Democrats are raising concerns about his ties to the defense industry and investment firms -- a complaint raised about other candidates for the defense secretary job and some of Biden's nominees to other Cabinet positions. Austin's positions on the boards of the investment firm Pine Island Capital Partners and defense contractor Raytheon have drawn criticism. More urgently for the Biden team, Democrats on the Senate Armed Services Committee, which would vote first on Austin's nomination, are stressing the need for civilian leadership at the helm of the Pentagon. Austin does not meet the standard set by law requiring defense secretaries to have been out of active-duty service for seven years before taking the top civilian post and some of Biden's closest allies are squeamish -- if not outright opposed -- to granting the waiver that would allow him to do so. Waiver battle aheadWaivers have only been granted twice since the defense secretary position was created in 1947, most recently for James Mattis, President Donald Trump's first defense secretary. While some Democrats, including Jack Reed, the ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, are showing signs of softening on the issue, others have been adamant. "I will not support the waiver," said Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut. "It is exciting and historic," he said of Austin's expected nomination, "but I believe that a waiver of the seven-year rule would contravene the basic principle that there should be civilian control over a nonpolitical military. The principle is essential to our democracy." Montana Sen. Jon Tester, who opposed the waiver for Mattis, said he would do so again for Austin. "I thought Mattis was a great secretary. And I think this guy is gonna be a great secretary of defense," he said. "I just think that we ought to look at the rules." The Biden team has done some "engagement with people on the Hill about a waiver," the second source familiar with the decision told CNN. This source said the Biden-Harris transition team is "hopeful leaders of the committees and members responsible for bringing that forward will support that," particularly given the historic nature of the nomination. According to a transition official, the transition team has so far engaged with more than 100 House and Senate offices on Austin's nomination and waiver. Austin is also expected to speak with Congressional leadership, including Senate and House Armed Services Committee members, "early on" as he begins the confirmation process, according to the official.Former Secretary of State Colin Powell, himself a retired Black four-star Army general, offered Austin a high-profile endorsement on Wednesday, calling him a "superb choice" and saying Congress "should have no concern" in waiving the requirement.Edelman, who is now a counselor at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, said the waiver "is a huge challenge for the Biden administration," and noted the Democratic Party platform said it would restore civil-military balance at the Defense Department. "It almost inevitably comes out as being portrayed as some reservation about Austin and the historic nature of his nomination, it gets all wrapped up in this issue, it's really not about him, it's about institutional equities and balance," Edelman said. Washington  (CNN) - Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton has petitioned the United States Supreme Court to take up a lawsuit against Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Georgia, claiming that there are voting irregularities in each state that still require investigation. The Supreme Court has already rejected a separate request to block certification of Pennsylvania's election results which CNN legal expert Steve Vladeck said is a signal the court may not want to get involved in election-related disputes. The filing from Texas contains numerous false claims of voter fraud, most of which have been repeatedly touted by President Donald Trump and his allies. Here's a look at several of those claims.Ballot dumpsThe filing cites witness claims of "mysterious late night dumps of thousands of ballots at tabulation centers" as an example of the alleged "rampant lawlessness" present throughout the election process.Facts First: There's nothing inherently suspicious or mysterious about large batches of votes being reported late at night or even after Election Day. Votes from mail-in ballots were often reported later on Election Day and afterwards because they couldn't be counted ahead of time in many states, including Michigan and Pennsylvania. And in several of the lawsuits the brief referenced, judges determined the witness affidavits claiming they saw literal late night dumps of ballots were baseless and not evidence of fraud. Poll watchers According to the filing, video shows "poll watchers being blocked from entering vote counting centers—despite even having a court order to enter." Facts First: There is no evidence supporting claims that poll watchers were shut out of the process. There have been some instances where poll workers did not understand the rules but for the most part, registered poll watchers have been allowed at polling places.Many of the Trump campaign's previous attacks on poll watchers have been focused on swing states like Pennsylvania. It's possible the suit is referring to one incident in Philadelphia in which a watcher who was registered for a different zone and different ward was initially not allowed into a polling location, due to confusion over city rules. Even in this case, the suit's claim would be misleading because the poll watcher was ultimately allowed access. Suitcases of ballotsThe filing says there is video of "suitcases full of ballots being pulled out from underneath tables after poll watchers were told to leave." Facts First: The brief is likely referring to viral video footage of a ballot counting location in Fulton County, Georgia. After a review of the footage, state and county officials determined the events in the video were part of the normal process, not fraud. Though observers weren't present at the time captured in the video, there was no announcement made telling them to leave, according to Fulton County Elections Director Richard Barron. And the objects pulled from under the table were ballot bins, not suitcases, according to election officials. Gabriel Sterling, the voting systems implementation manager for the Georgia secretary of state's office announced in a tweet early Friday morning that state investigators concluded the video showed "normal ballot processing.""Nothing we have learned from the independent monitor or our investigation have suggested any improper ballots were scanned," the secretary of state's office told CNN in a statement. Asked in a December 4 Fulton County Board of Elections meeting why the bin was under the cloth covered table, giving the impression of something to hide, Barron responded that, "They put those ballot bins under their workspace because it's the most convenient place to put those things.""There isn't any reason for anything to be hidden," he added. "It's just the way the workspace is laid out.""The President's team is intentionally misleading the public about what happened at State Farm Arena on election night," Sterling tweeted Friday afternoon. "They had the whole video too and ignored the truth."Michigan "glitch"The brief also suggests that a "glitch" occurred in Michigan, implying that Dominion voting machines were possibly at fault. "In Michigan, which also employed the same Dominion voting system," the brief says, "on November 4, 2020, Michigan election officials have admitted that a purported 'glitch' caused 6,000 votes for President Trump to be wrongly switched to Democrat Candidate Biden."Facts First: There was no technical glitch. It was human error and the issue was corrected and never affected the official vote total, according to state election officials. According to a statement from Michigan's State Department, an error occurred during the unofficial vote tabulation when a county clerk failed to update voting machine software, which caused votes to not properly combine "when the clerk reported unofficial results.""The software did not cause a misallocation of votes; it was a result of user human error," the statement says. The State Department also wrote that if the error had not been quickly corrected, there are separate measures in place to review and verify the unofficial results, including through a bipartisan group of canvassers. Mail-in ballotsUnder a section titled "Facts," the brief claims "Absentee and mail-in voting are the primary opportunities for unlawful ballots to be cast" and suggest the expansion of mail-in voting in the election played a role in creating "a massive opportunity for fraud."The insinuation -- that mail-in ballots are potentially rife with fraud -- is one of the main themes touched upon throughout the lawsuit.Facts First: Election experts have told CNN time and again that mail-in ballots are a safe form of voting and not subject to widespread fraud. There have been no reports from state election officials of either party of widespread voter fraud from mail-in ballots.On November 12, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency issued a statement calling this year's election "the most secure in American history."On November 17, Trump fired Chris Krebs, the director of the CISA, who continually debunked claims of widespread voter fraud following the election. In his tweet announcing Krebs' removal, Trump falsely claimed Krebs made "highly inaccurate" claims about the security of the 2020 election.Washington  (CNN) - President-elect Joe Biden on Thursday announced a slate of new Cabinet nominees and picks for top roles in his administration, including Denis McDonough for secretary of Veterans Affairs, Tom Vilsack for Agriculture secretary and Marcia Fudge for secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Biden tapped Susan Rice, former national security adviser during the Obama administration, as his director of the Domestic Policy Council. The President-elect also announced Katherine Tai, who oversaw trade enforcement for China during the Obama administration, as his nominee for United States Trade Representative. All of Biden's picks except Rice will require confirmation by the United States Senate to serve in their roles. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris are expected to introduce these key administration members at an event on Friday in Wilmington, Delaware, the transition team said. CNN had previously reported all of these administration picks. The picks reflect how Biden is turning to longtime advisers and experts in their respective fields for top posts in his administration. Many have close ties with Biden, and developed relationships with the President-elect while working in the Obama administration. "This dedicated and distinguished group of public servants will bring the highest level of experience, compassion, and integrity to bear, solving problems and expanding possibilities for the American people in the face of steep challenges," Biden said in a statement. The President-elect continued, "The roles they will take on are where the rubber meets the road — where competent and crisis-tested governance can make a meaningful difference in people's lives, enhancing the dignity, equity, security, and prosperity of the day-to-day lives of Americans. This is the right team for this moment in history, and I know that each of these leaders will hit the ground running on day one to take on the interconnected crises families are facing today."Vilsack served as agriculture secretary for the entirety of President Barack Obama's time in the White House. He was unanimously confirmed by the US Senate in January 2009 and served in that post until he stepped down in 2017, shortly before President Donald Trump took office. Vilsack is also the former governor of Iowa -- in 1998, Vilsak became the first Democrat elected governor of Iowa in more than 30 years. He served as governor from 1999 to 2007. McDonough was a longtime chief of staff to former President Barack Obama. He served as chief of staff during Obama's entire second term and also worked as deputy national security adviser. McDonough developed a close relationship with Biden while serving in both positions. He also chaired the National Security Council's Deputies Committee, which is responsible for formulating the administration's national security and foreign policy.Fudge has represented Ohio's 11th Congressional District since 2008. She serves on a number of committees, and previously chaired the Congressional Black Caucus. Prior to running for Congress, Fudge made history as the first woman and first African American to be elected mayor of Warrensville Heights, Ohio. Rice was thought to be a contender to be Biden's vice president or secretary of state. First Obama's UN ambassador and then later his national security adviser, Rice has a long and close relationship with Biden and has deep foreign policy experience. She also served in Clinton's administration as the special assistant to the president and senior director for African affairs at the White House, the assistant secretary for the Bureau of African Affairs at the State Department and the director of international organizations and peacekeeping at the National Security Council. Tai is seen as an expert on China trade policy, and if confirmed by the Senate, would be the first woman of color to serve as USTR. She is currently the top Democratic trade counsel for the House Ways and Means Committee. Tai played a key role in negotiating trade policy for Democrats in the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, which came under Trump's administration and replaced the North American Free Trade Agreement. (CNN) - A green light for a Covid-19 vaccine could come any day now in the US, but leading health experts warn the nation is only at the start of a winter that's projected to be one of the most difficult in the nation's history. "We are in a totally unprecedented health crisis in this country. The disease is everywhere -- Midwest, West Coast, East Coast, North, South. Health care workers are exhausted, hospitals are totally full," former Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius told CNN Wednesday night.December has already proved devastating. Wednesday recorded more than 3,100 Covid-19 deaths -- the highest daily death toll ever since the pandemic's start, beating a record set just days ago. There are now more than 106,600 Covid-19 patients nationwide, the most ever, according to the COVID Tracking Project. And the country's average of daily new cases is now more than 200,000 -- and that's as experts are soon expecting another surge to kick off, one fueled by the Thanksgiving travel and gatherings that took place last month.Covid-19 vaccines are a "really significant light at the end of the tunnel," Sebelius said, but in the coming months it's crucial that Americans stay vigilant and follow safety guidelines, like wearing face masks, social distancing and staying away from indoor gatherings."We've got to take what we've learned in the last eight months and really put it into practice, so we don't continue to have this unthinkable death toll and disease toll," she said. Her warning has in the past week been echoed by other leading health officials and experts who warn that while a vaccine may be almost here, the country will likely not see any meaningful impact until well into 2021 -- and that's if enough people get vaccinated. "Let's say we get 75%, 80% of the population vaccinated. I believe if we do it efficiently enough over the second quarter of 2021, by the time we get to the end of the summer ... we may actually have enough herd immunity protecting our society that as we get to the end of 2021, we could approach very much, some degree of normality that is close to where we were before," Dr. Anthony Fauci said in a Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health virtual event Wednesday.One big challenge: reaching the American communities that are hesitant of the vaccine and skeptical about the science behind it. "We want to make sure that the vaccines are actually administered, and we're afraid that won't happen," Paul Ostrowski, who is leading supply, production and distribution for Operation Warp Speed, told "Good Morning America" Wednesday. "We must build a trust in American people," he said. "We just want to make sure that everybody gets this vaccine, because we've got to get our lives back."New measures across the countryWhile the pandemic rages on, local and state leaders continue to tighten restrictions in hopes of curbing both the spread of the virus and its deadly effects. Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott announced new measures Wednesday, shutting down all restaurant dining and indoor recreation like bowling alleys, pool halls and hookah bars. Based on the Covid-19 patterns, intervention was required, city health officials said. "Baltimore City has not had to implement such severe restrictions since the very earliest days of the pandemic and the implementation of the stay-at-home order," the city's health department wrote on Twitter. "Unfortunately, with the volume of new cases that we are seeing and the implications it has on hospital utilization, during a period of widespread, community transmission, activities such as eating, drinking and smoking in close proximity to others, should not continue."In Mississippi, Gov. Tate Reeves signed a new executive order adding stricter limitations on indoor and outdoor gatherings and moving more counties to the state's mask mandate list -- meaning 61 of the state's 82 counties are under a mask mandate.Indiana's governor said he will require hospitals to postpone or reschedule nonemergent procedures done in an inpatient hospital setting from December 16 through January 3 to preserve hospital capacity.Gov. Eric Holcomb also announced new caps on social gatherings starting this weekend, based on which color zone (determined by weekly cases per 100,000 and seven-day positivity rate) counties are in.In Alabama, Gov. Kay Ivey announced Wednesday she'll be extending the state's Safer at Home order that includes a statewide mask mandate for another six weeks. And North Dakota officials announced the extension of two orders that require face coverings and limit capacity at bars, restaurants and other event venues. 20 million could get vaccine in next weeksNow, more than half -- 53% -- of all Americans say they would likely get a first-generation Covid-19 vaccine as soon as it's available, according to new poll results from Axios-Ipsos. That number is up from 51% before Thanksgiving and 38% in early October. No vaccine has yet been authorized by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). But an emergency use authorization is expected soon and about 20 million people could likely get vaccinated in the next few weeks, Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar told CNN Wednesday. Meanwhile in the UK, "thousands" of people were vaccinated Tuesday, the first day of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine rollout, according to the National Health Service (NHS). A day later, health officials said people with "a significant history of allergic reactions" should not be given the vaccine, after two health care workers experienced symptoms after receiving a shot. The FDA will not "cut any corners" when deciding whether to authorize the vaccine, Azar said, saying he was sure what happened in the UK would be "something the FDA looks at."Vaccinations will also likely now kick off in Canada, where health officials announced Wednesday an emergency approval for Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine. Azar said he remains confident that by the end of the second quarter of 2021, any American who wants a vaccine will be able to get one."Even as we have such a bright future ahead, we face extremely concerning trends in the spread of the virus," Azar said. "For now, we need to double down on the steps that can keep us all safe."Editor's Note: Ines Hassan is a Senior Policy Researcher at the Global Health Governance Programme at the Usher Institute, University of Edinburgh, and a consultant to the World Health Organization. She is currently working with the Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparation and Response (IPPPR) to assess WHO's response to past outbreaks and the Covid-19 pandemic. The views in this commentary belong to the author. View more opinion at CNN.(CNN) - Early Tuesday morning, reporters and cameramen crowded around a small hospital room in Coventry, UK, to watch as Margaret Keenan -- who celebrates her 91st birthday next week -- became the first person in the world to receive the novel Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against Covid-19 outside of developmental trials. This marks the start of a UK-wide roll-out, in which people age 80 or over, and frontline health and social care workers are the first in line to receive the vaccine. This historic moment was made possible after the UK's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) granted temporary authorization for use of the vaccine last week. This occasion is momentous considering the novel coronavirus was only sequenced 11 months ago and Pfizer/BioNTech began their first trials in early May. For many, this vaccine could not have arrived any sooner, as the UK has already witnessed about 62,000 deaths from the virus since the start of the pandemic, and in the last week over 107,000 people tested positive for Covid-19, despite the country just coming out of a second lockdown on December 2. However, some European politicians and US public health leaders have expressed concern that the MHRA's approval process was complete well before the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the European Medicines Agency (EMA) have finished processing data from the vaccine trials. Last week, the EMA indicated that more evidence was required before approval could be sought and the popular National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) Director Dr. Anthony Fauci suggested that the MHRA approval process was "rushed" before later apologizing and acknowledging the MHRA's leadership and experience as a regulatory body. Devoid of evidence, these reactions might be considered reckless given the mounting issue of Covid-19 misinformation and vaccine hesitancy across the globe. The results from a panel study of 70,000 respondents in the UK carried out by University College London and released in September suggested that 22% of adults were unlikely to be vaccinated against Covid-19. In fact, evidence from the MHRA approval process suggests that an efficient but stringent approval process was used by leveraging multidisciplinary teams, advanced planning, real-time data evaluation, independent reviews and strong leadership.  First, in June and then later in August, two multidisciplinary independent expert working groups were formed to prepare for and support the review process. Then in September, laboratories were equipped to carry out independent batch testing to test the safety and effectiveness of batches that would be sent by the manufacturers two months later. Throughout the process, the MHRA enabled Pfizer/BioNTech to send data from laboratory studies to clinical trials through a rolling submission process, allowing the regulatory body to assess results on an almost real-time basis. This made it easier to review the final data submission sent in the last week of November. The independent advisory body the Commission on Human Medicines was then asked to review the data separately before providing recommendations on the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine. Finally, an EU legal provision was used to allow the UK to issue a temporary authorization to supply specific batches of the vaccine based on the public health need. This timeline tells us that strong leadership and close communication with the manufacturers has enabled an efficient review process.All of this was managed under the strong leadership of Dr June Raine, who is also an experienced medicine and vaccine safety expert. She headed up the MHRA's Vigilance and Risk Management group for many years before taking on the role of Chief Executive in 2019 and has held the role of chair of the EMA's Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). If anyone is going to put vaccine safety first, it is Raine. This is important because as we roll out the largest vaccination campaign in history, we will inevitably see new safety signals that need expert monitoring.  Furthermore, those who have worked with her can attest to her confident and calm leadership, which surely has motivated her team to work "around the clock," including on weekends, to support the review process. Of course, not all of these attributes are unique to the UK alone -- despite the enthused claims made by some politicians in the UK. While the EMA approval process is very similar to the UK's, it is expecting to grant a conditional marketing authorization, which will enable countries across the EU to use the vaccine; this simply takes longer to complete. The US FDA process is also not all that dissimilar: Different groups of scientists will analyse the "raw data" and the FDA has requested the trial protocols from the manufacturers to understand the design and how the data was analyzed. The FDA's evaluation of the vaccine will certainly be useful for regulatory bodies across the globe, but at the same time the FDA could certainly learn from some of the efficient steps taken by the MHRA. Finally, although the US FDA has been criticized for being too "bureaucratic" and "slow" in the past, its time line for reviewing the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine is not too far off that of the UK's; a decision on the authorization of the vaccine is expected to take place in the next few weeks, if not the next few days, after an advisory panel meeting on December 10. A briefing released ahead of this meeting confirms the efficacy and safety profile of the vaccine. As Keenan settled down after her vaccination Tuesday morning, she enthused that it was the "best early birthday present" that she could have wished for -- a wish I'm sure that she extends to everyone in the US and around the globe. Washington  (CNN) - With eight days to go until another spending deadline, the prospects of Congress agreeing to, writing and voting on a massive stimulus proposal before Christmas are slim.A bipartisan group of negotiators is still stuck on how to craft liability protections. Republican leaders are signaling their conference can never support the state and local aid Democrats want, and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer are still insisting the only way forward is to put their faith in an amorphous, bipartisan gang.The bottom line: These talks are falling apart as millions of Americans are desperate for some -- even temporary -- relief. The bipartisan group of lawmakers is still meeting and trying to find a solution. It's just that the window for them to find the sweet spot is closing. Republicans are making it clear they don't like aspects of that proposal. Democrats are still insisting it's the only way forward. We have officially entered the phase in these talks when aides on both sides are beginning to speculate the other party never wanted a deal to begin with. That's not a good place to be.The calendarWe have eight days until the next spending deadline. There still isn't a deal on an omnibus bill to fund the federal government. There still isn't a deal on a stimulus package to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic. Congress has already given itself a one-week extension. If a deal is going to come together on stimulus, it needs to come together in principle by the end of the weekend to reasonably be added to the spending bill and passed by Friday. Even that is pushing it. That's not a whole lot of time for leaders to call a truce, get in a room and hammer the rest of this out.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has already signaled he would be willing to cut a deal right now that includes school funding, another round of Paycheck Protection Program loans, extended unemployment insurance benefits, transportation funding and an extension of the eviction moratorium. Those items are easy to draft onto a bill and don't take much time given they have broad, bipartisan agreement. But, if Democrats insist on state and local and have to negotiate on liability, a week wouldn't be enough time at this point unless some serious concessions are made on both sides over the next 48 hours.Republican opposition began to grow Wednesday to the bipartisan framework. Last week, members of GOP leadership were keeping the door open to the proposal. Now, they are making clear it's time for Pelosi and McConnell, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy and Schumer to get in a room and finish this up. Their preference is to leave the two biggest sticking points for another day's fight.Senate Majority Whip John Thune, a Republican from South Dakota, told reporters Wednesday that money for state and local governments "bleeds" Republicans and "the bipartisan group provided a good foundation, kind of a place to start from ... the real negotiations on what can ultimately pass the House, the Senate, and get signed need to get underway."When asked if he thought there would be a deal on stimulus Wednesday, Texas Republican Sen. John Cornyn said: "How do I put this gently? I'm not going to be the one making the decision. It's going to be Nancy Pelosi, Kevin McCarthy, Chuck Schumer and Mitch McConnell."Pelosi does not like being told how to negotiateCNN told Pelosi on Wednesday that "a lot of Republican senators are arguing that you and McConnell just need to get in a room and iron this out.""Is that what they think?" she asked. "Good for them. Tell them to go meet with McConnell."The sticking pointsThey are the same as they've been for months.     • State and local funding
     • Liability protectionsAnd to a lesser extent     • Whether to include a round of stimulus checks sent directly to Americans, similar to the ones from earlier this yearWhat happens next?We are still waiting on whether the bipartisan group can manage to find a solution on liability insurance and state and local funding. Aides familiar with the negotiations have been telling CNN that they are close. But they've been close all week. An important reminder is that even if the members can agree among themselves on a way forward with those two provisions, that still doesn't mean the rest of the Republican conference or the rest of the Democratic caucus would support it. It's a point that has been laid out to me by GOP aides for the last 10 days: Republican members who are in the bipartisan group are highly respected members of the conference, but they are not representative of the group at large in terms of policy. Maine and Alaska operate very differently politically than Alabama and Nebraska. And on the Democratic side, a deal Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia is willing to cut on liability may not be a deal that Sen. Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat from Massachusetts, can vote for. The bipartisan group was always intended to be a way to break the logjam, put some ideas on paper and get leaders talking again. They have definitely accomplished that. It's just important to remember that their plan isn't likely to be the final deal even if they get a breakthrough on liability Thursday or Friday.(CNN) - President-elect Joe Biden sought to sell his choice for defense secretary, retired Army Gen. Lloyd Austin, to congressional Democrats who are balking at the prospect of waiving the requirement that the position be filled by someone who has been out of active-duty military service for at least seven years. Biden formally introduced Austin as his nominee to lead the Pentagon at an in-person event Wednesday afternoon in Delaware. If confirmed, he would make history as the first Black secretary of defense. The selection has set off a new debate over civilian control of the military. Austin, who retired four years ago, would require the same waiver that Congress gave President Donald Trump's nominee, retired Marine officer Jim Mattis, four years ago -- leading some Democrats to say they were hesitant to approve such a waiver once and don't want to do so again. "I would not be asking for this exception if I did not believe this moment in our history didn't call for it -- it does call for it -- and if I didn't have the faith I have in Lloyd Austin to ask for it," Biden said. His message Wednesday was aimed directly at Congress, highlighting its move to grant Mattis a waiver. He said he has seen Austin at tables with foreign leaders, and wondered at times if he was a military leader or diplomat. "I'm not exaggerating -- he has a way about him," Biden said. "I know this man. I know his respect for our Constitution. I know his respect for our system of government. So just as they did for Secretary Jim Mattis, I ask the Congress to grant a waiver for Lloyd Austin," Biden said. He also underscored the length of their relationship and personal trust in Austin. "I have personally worked with this man. I have seen him lead American fighting forces on the field of battle. I have also watched him faithfully carry out the orders of the civilian leadership of this nation," Biden said. Austin said he would keep the importance of civilian control of the military "at the forefront of my mind" and would run a Pentagon "grounded in meaningful civilian oversight."  "I come to this new role as a civilian leader -- with military experience, to be sure -- but also with a deep appreciation and reverence for the prevailing wisdom of civilian control of our military," he said.Several Senate Democrats this week said they would oppose a waiver for Austin. Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Connecticut, said granting one "would contravene the basic principle that there should be civilian control over a nonpolitical military." But Sen. Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, indicated he was open to granting Austin a waiver, saying that "in all fairness, you have to give the opportunity to the nominee to explain himself or herself." Biden's transition team is already lobbying Congress: It has reached out to more than 100 House and Senate offices about Austin's nomination and a waiver, a transition official said. Austin is expected to speak with congressional leadership, including House leadership and both Senate and House Armed Service Committee members, "early on" as he begins the confirmation process, the official said.Biden selected Austin out of three finalists and offered him the post in a phone call over the weekend, CNN previously reported.In an op-ed published Tuesday by The Atlantic, Biden directly addressed Austin's need for a waiver. "The fact is, Austin's many strengths and his intimate knowledge of the Department of Defense and our government are uniquely matched to the challenges and crises we face. He is the person we need in this moment," he wrote. "I respect and believe in the importance of civilian control of our military and in the importance of a strong civil-military working relationship at DoD--as does Austin," Biden wrote. "We need empowered civilians working with military leaders to shape DoD's policies and ensure that our defense policies are accountable to the American people. Austin also knows that the secretary of defense has a different set of responsibilities than a general officer and that the civil-military dynamic has been under great stress these past four years. He will work tirelessly to get it back on track."Biden's pitch for Austin includes deep personal and family ties: Biden's late son Beau Biden served on Austin's staff in Iraq and the two forged a close relationship there, sitting side by side at mass on Sundays and remaining friends after Beau Biden returned from his deployment, a source familiar with Biden's decision said."In his more than 40 years in the United States Army, Austin met every challenge with extraordinary skill and profound personal decency. He is a true and tested soldier and leader. I've spent countless hours with him, in the field and in the White House Situation Room," Biden wrote. "I've sought his advice, seen his command, and admired his calm and his character. He is the definition of a patriot."(CNN) - President-elect Joe Biden is expected to tap Susan Rice, the former national security adviser during the Obama administration, to lead the White House Domestic Policy Council, two sources familiar told CNN.Politico was the first to report the decision.This story is breaking and will be updated.(CNN) - President-elect Joe Biden is poised to tap Denis McDonough to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs, a person familiar with the decision says, adding the longtime chief of staff to former President Barack Obama to his new Cabinet.It's the latest example of how Biden is turning to a trusted set of advisers to surround him in his new administration. As VA secretary, McDonough would be inheriting one of the most challenging agencies in the government, so Biden was looking "for a seasoned hand, who knows the government well," a person familiar with the decision says.Several veterans groups were hoping Biden would choose a veteran of the Iraq or Afghanistan wars. McDonough did not serve in the military, but rather has long experience navigating bureaucracies on Capitol Hill and at the White House.McDonough, a native of Minnesota who served as chief of staff during Obama's entire second term, also worked as deputy national security adviser. He developed a close relationship with Biden during both positions. He is a devout Catholic, a bond he also shares with Biden.The announcement of McDonough is forthcoming. He could join other prospective Cabinet nominees on Friday in Wilmington, Delaware, but timing is still being worked out.Politico was first to report the McDonough selection.(CNN) - Celebrating Hanukkah, the Festival of Lights, is a bright spot for Jewish people in an otherwise dark year. Over 1.5 million people have died from Covid-19, and countless events have been called off. Rising coronavirus numbers have forced many Jews to cancel their traditional celebrations in favor of safer virtual events. A light in the darknessOne of the cornerstones of Hanukkah celebrations is lighting the menorah each of the eight nights of the holiday. Lighting the menorah reminds Alana Rudkin of Pittsburgh that a little bit of light can dispel a lot of darkness. "While we can't gather in traditional ways to celebrate this year, I would encourage folks to connect to their inner light, making room for self-reflection and growth," Rudkin said. Rudkin volunteers at The Friendship Circle of Pittsburgh, a Jewish community-based group that works to enrich the lives of youth and adults in the Pittsburgh area. The group normally celebrates Hanukkah in person, but this year its members are moving the celebrations online, including the menorah lightings.One of the virtual video lightings is Disney-themed, Rudkin said, which in past events have included Disney trivia and music.Rudkin's family celebrations have also changed due to the pandemic. She usually makes latkes, which are fried potato pancakes, with her family, and then invites friends over to share the food. "My dad would have us hand-grating potatoes really until our fingers would bleed," Rudkin said.She's not inviting friends over this year, but she still plans on making latkes with her parents at home. Online family celebrationsLast year, New York City resident Lisa Gaetjens' family threw a party for dozens of family and friends filled with traditional foods like latkes and sufganiyot, which are fried jelly doughnuts. Her family decided to transition their party online this year, which Gaetjens said will be a smaller affair."It's very disappointing to not be able to physically be with our families for this holiday, but it's also the best option," Gaetjens said. Her mother-in-law is coordinating food to be delivered to each attendee's home so everyone can enjoy the same meal together. Virtual celebration plans haven't been finalized, but Gaetjens knows they'll light the menorah that night. One activity she expects will be skipped is singing, which was a popular activity at the party in years past.Video calls often have an echo that makes it difficult to sync up multiple voices, which is why "I don't think we'll be doing a lot of singing this year," Gaetjens said. Honoring traditionsRabbi-in-residence Avram Mlotek of Marlene Meyerson Jewish Community Center in New York City also has plans of moving celebrations virtually, with a latke cooking class and menorah lightings already scheduled online. Meyerson believes that Jewish people are prepared to celebrate online because they had to do it early on in the pandemic. "When Passover was around and we had to celebrate in isolation, I reminded folks that actually the first Passover was also celebrated in a type of quarantine," Mlotek said. In the Bible, Mlotek said, the angel of death swept over Jewish homes, but because they marked their homes and stayed inside, they were safe. As a grandchild of Holocaust survivors, Mlotek is no stranger to darkness and despair. He hopes to reach a larger audience of current and future generations of Jewish people to celebrate life and Hanukkah virtually this year.(CNN) - The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed three Muslims who had been placed on no-fly lists to sue for financial damages against FBI officials under a federal law meant to protect religious liberty. Writing for an 8-0 court, Justice Clarence Thomas said that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, passed in 1993 to prohibit the federal government from imposing substantial burdens on religious exercise without a compelling interest, allows the suits against the individual agents."The question here," Thomas wrote, "is whether that includes claims for money damages against Government officials in their individual capacities. We hold that it does."The unusual case featured strange bedfellows, pitting the Trump administration against supporters of religious liberty.Unlike other recent cases before the high court, the Trump administration weighed in against claims of religious freedom arguing that the law at issue was never meant to allow government officials to be sued for damages in their individual capacity. But supporters of the men, including the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, sought to broaden the reach of the law. The case comes as the federal government has cracked down on mass protests, the President has emphasized the importance of law and order, and some critics say there is a need for greater accountability from law enforcement.The dispute arose in 2013, when Muhammad Tanzir, Jameel Algibhah and Naveed Shinwari said they were asked by the FBI to become informants for the government in terrorism-related investigations. The men claim they declined -- citing their religious beliefs -- and their reluctance to spy on their community. They allege that they were retaliated against and put on the watchlist for people who are prohibited from boarding aircraft that originate from, terminate in, or pass over the United States. Even after they were removed from the list, their lawyers sought to sue the individual agents for damages citing the federal law."An individual whose religious exercise has been substantially burdened by a federal official," lawyer Ramzi Kassem of the City University of New York School of Law argued, "may sue that person in their individual capacity for damages."A lower court ruled in their favor allowing the law suit to move forward. The Justice Department appealed the case to the Supreme Court.The  Justice Department told the justices that a decision allowing damage awards against the federal employees could chill their ability to do their job and "raise sensitive separation of powers concerns"  potentially preventing government officials from "devoting the time and effort required for the proper discharge of duties.""Even well-intentioned federal employees would thus be forced to navigate a minefield of liability that would be difficult to predict or avoid," Deputy Solicitor General Edwin S. Kneedler, said in court papers."We are thrilled that the Supreme Court justices were unanimous in their agreement that our clients can seek repair for the harms that they experienced at the hands of these agents for refusing to spy on their Muslim communities," said Diala Shamas, an attorney for the three men. "I hope that this serves as a reminder that religious protections apply equally to Muslim communities, who are all too often targeted by law enforcement for surveillance and harassment."(CNN) - We've entered the part of the negotiations over stimulus relief to the Covid-19 pandemic and its economic fallout where everyone is putting their ideas on the table. That's productive, but with just nine days to go until the next spending deadline, there's not much time left for it.  There are a lot of proposals and none of them are ready to be voted on. The White House is officially back in the game on stimulus talks for the first time since the election. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is suggesting his own path forward, and the bipartisan group is still trying to solve for the problem of liability insurance that has confounded negotiators for months.The bottom line: The White House offer is dead on arrival by Democrats. All eyes on the bipartisan group and whether they can close their deal. The sticking point? Money for state and local governments and liability protections. The bipartisan planCNN obtained a copy of the summary of the bipartisan proposal on Wednesday morning. The summary did not include liability and state and local aide, but does provide a snapshot of how they plan to structure other programs, including the small business loan Paycheck Protection Program, education funding, transportation funding, opioid funding, unemployment extenders and the student loan payment freeze. This list isn't exhaustive, but a sampling of what the bill includes:On unemployment:     • $300 in enhanced unemployment benefits for 16 weeks
     • extension of unemployment benefits for gig workers
     • extension of program that allows people to remain on unemployment for 39 weeks instead of 26 For small businesses:     • $300 billion to the Small Business Administration to provide another round of PPP loans for businesses with fewer than 300 employees that experienced demonstrated revenue losses because of the pandemicOn transportation:     • transportation funding for Amtrak, airports, bus companies and an extension of the payroll support program for frontline aviation workers.On health care:     • $35 billion for health care providers, including $7 billion for rural health and $1 billion for tribal health care facilities
     • $6 billion for vaccine distribution
     • $7 billion in testing and tracing grants for states and localities and an additional $2 billion for nursing homesEducation:     • $82 billion for education providers
     • extension of student loan payment freeze through April 30, 2021Other programs:     • $25 billion to states and localities for rental assistance
     • 15% increase in Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP, benefits for individuals for four months
     • $13 billion for farmers, ranchers affected by the pandemic
     • $10 billion for childcare providers struggling amid the pandemic
     • $6 billion in broadband grantsMissing from this proposal?     • Details on what the plan is exactly for state and local funding and liability. Under the liability section it says "agreement in principle as the basis for good faith negotiations."A word of warning that the group involves a lot of players. Therefore, any announcements on when these will be rolled out should be taken with caution as there are just a lot of members who have to agree before anything is seen publicly.So what was in Mnuchin's offer Tuesday?Multiple sources told CNN that while a plan from Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin's did include a lot of the same provisions that were in the bipartisan bill -- including $160 billion for state and local funding and a more "robust" liability protection -- it also included $600 direct checks for Americans. It paid for those checks, however, by scrapping a provision in the bipartisan bill that brought back $300 enhanced weekly unemployment benefits. Those benefits ran out at the end of July, but were replaced by Trump's executive order in August and are seen by Democrats and some Republicans as essential in these talks. As one Democratic aide put it, replacing a weekly $300 benefit that goes through March with a one-time $600 payment is not going to cut it.Still, Mnuchin's involvement sends an important signal. The White House, which has largely been playing a behind-the-scenes role in these talks, is back in the game. CNN has been told that GOP leadership was fully engaged and onboard with what Mnuchin offered Tuesday night even if the plan did look different than McConnell's suggestion earlier in the day to scrap liability and state and local aid and move on.A recapIf you were watching Tuesday, it was easy to get whiplash. As the bipartisan group struggled to find a compromise on state and local aid and liability insurance, McConnell suggested in the GOP lunch call and later publicly, that it made sense to drop them both and move ahead with a package that already had broad agreement."We can't leave without doing a Covid bill. The country needs it," the Kentucky Republican said, adding, "What I recommend is we set aside liability and set aside state and local and pass those things that we can agree on, knowing full well we'll be back at this after the first of the year."Democrats didn't like that suggestion with Democratic Whip Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois calling it "a breach of faith" that he couldn't support.Hours later, just as bipartisan senators were beginning another Zoom negotiation over their own relief bill -- Mnuchin announced he had presented a new $916 billion proposal to Democrats that included the state and local aid and liability protections that hours earlier McConnell had suggested should be gone.Democrats swiftly threw cold water on Mnuchin's plan, saying that the bipartisan group's work should continue.Be on the look out to see if leadership has any more calls or meetings today about stimulus or spending. While Democrats have made it clear that they want to let the bipartisan group's work play out, there isn't a ton of time left to wait for them to close this deal. McConnell has signaled he's open to talk with his suggestion Wednesday. Mnuchin is clearly trading proposals with Democrats as well. And while Democratic leadership wants to give the bipartisan group space, talks between leadership aides over a path forward have never stopped. Keep your eye on the principles here.And of course, the House votes Wednesday afternoon on a one-week continuing resolution to keep the government open.A reminder about the bipartisan groupWhile the group does include Republicans and Democrats and it's grown to include members like Sen. Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who has been helping on the liability piece, the Republicans in the bipartisan group don't represent the views of the GOP conference at large on some of these issues. What might work for Sen. Mitt Romney, a Republican from Utah, or Maine Republican Sen. Susan Collins may not work for Wyoming GOP Sen. John Barrasso. Even if the group irons out a final proposal and has bill text, it's not the end of the agreement. There was some pushback in GOP lunch Tuesday over the path the bipartisan group is taking, according to aides. And, there is a recognition that leadership will eventually have to get involved in it. McConnell isn't one to bring bills to the floor that only have a handful of Republican votes. He's going to have to get broader buy-in from the conference.NDAA voteThe House vote on the $741 billion defense policy bill was a strong 335-78. That's more than veto proof. The hope among GOP leaders is that the Senate will have its own strong vote that will force the President to reconsider vetoing it in the first place. It's still important to remember that if Trump does veto this proposal, lawmakers will have to take their votes all over again. And, while Republicans might have voted "yes" the first time, that "yes" gets harder when a President who is popular with your base calls on you to vote no. House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy has already said that while he voted the bill the first time, he won't back it again if Trump vetoes it."I don't believe Republicans, in our work with the President always, that you vote to override a veto," McCarthy said.This story has been updated with additional developments Wednesday.(CNN) - President-elect Joe Biden will travel to Georgia next Tuesday to headline a rally in support of the Democratic candidates in the state's US Senate runoff election, the Biden campaign announced Thursday.Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock are challenging incumbent GOP Sens. David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler in a pair of races that will determine control of the United States Senate.Biden's visit is tied directly to the start of early voting in Georgia. Voters can begin casting ballots in the state next Monday and the Democratic ticket is placing a special emphasis on getting out the early vote. In addition to Biden, the campaigns are also planning a future visit from Vice President-elect Kamala Harris as well as tips from a number of high-profile Democratic surrogates.The Democratic approach to surrogates has been much different than the Republicans who have been flooding the zone with visits from GOP stars. President Donald Trump made a trip to Valdosta, Georgia, last Saturday and a made promise to return. The GOP ticket has also benefited from Vice President Mike Pence who has already made one trip and will be in Augusta later Thursday.  Trump and Pence join a long list of prominent Republicans who have come to Georgia. Among them, Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, Sen. Rick Scott of Florida, Sen. Tom Cotton of Arkansas, Sen. Joni Ersnt of Iowa, Sen. Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee and Sen. Bill Hagerty of Tennessee. RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel has also visited the state, along with Rep. Dan Crenshaw of Texas and South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem. Later this week, GOP Rep. Jim Jordan of Ohio, Sen. Steve Daines of Montana and former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin will tour the state with the group "Club for Growth". The intense interest from Republicans across the country demonstrates the stakes for the party beyond Georgia. During her bus tour with Perdue, Ernst told a crowd in Griffin, Georgia, that Republicans across the country were counting on the voters in the state. "There is more at risk than just two simple seats in the United States Senate. There is a lot at risk right now, in the United States, if we do not hold the United States Senate," Ernst said.The GOP cries for protecting control of the Senate come despite Trump's ill-fated quest to overturn the results of the Presidential election. Control of the Senate only hangs in the balance because when Biden and Harris take office, Harris is in a position to cast a tie-breaking vote as Senate President. Still, in attacking Biden's planned visit, Trump campaign manager Bill Stepien claimed that the President was still fighting to overturn the election result, but also warned that GOP control of the Senate hinges on the results of the Georgia race."Joe Biden's trip to Georgia next week proves that Democrats are taking the Senate runoff elections seriously and so should Republicans," Stepien said.  "Control of the U.S. Senate is at stake and it is imperative that Senators David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler are returned to Washington."In general, the Ossoff and Warnock campaigns take much greater pains to prevent the spread of coronavirus than their Republican counterparts, which limits the value of surrogates travelling to the state. Surrogates are often used to draw crowds to packed events. It is unclear what precautions will be put in place for the Biden event, but in the past, the Biden campaign has conducted drive-in rallies to facilitate social distancing, while at the same time allowing for a large gathering of supporters.While the big push for Democratic surrogates isn't expected until next week, some of the party's stars have made trips here. Former HUD secretary and former presidential candidate Julian Castro visited this week and appeared with both Ossoff and Warnock. Democrats are also taking advantage of virtual campaign tactics. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Elizabeth Warren both held virtual fundraisers to support the Georgia campaigns. President Barack Obama held a virtual rally with the two candidates. The campaigns say it was watched by more than a half a million people and led to the recruitment of 14,000 volunteers.The Democrats have also benefited from virtual events with Hollywood celebrities. The casts of the HBO show "Veep" and the movie "Elf" recently held Zoom table readings designed to raise money and interest for the candidates.(CNN) - When most people hear "lawsuit" and "Supreme Court," they generally think something serious is going on. After all, the legal system in  America is no joke! And if the Supreme Court might get involved? Well then, we all need to sit up and pay attention.This is, usually, the case! Usually -- but not always.Which brings me to the lawsuit brought by Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton -- and joined on Wednesday by none other than President Donald Trump -- that alleges that four states (Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin) altered their election laws in the runup to the 2020 presidential election that made fraud more likely, and, therefore, that millions of ballots cast in those four states should be invalidated. "Our Country is deeply divided in ways that it arguably has not been seen since the election of 1860," the petition filed to the court states. "There is a high level of distrust between the opposing sides, compounded by the fact that, in the election just held, election officials in key swing states, for apparently partisan advantage, failed to conduct their state elections in compliance with state election law.""This is the big one," Trump himself tweeted on Wednesday. "Our Country needs a victory!"Sounds serious! Except, it's not.Here's why: Texas has zero legal standing to challenge how other states conduct their elections. Elections -- including ones for federal offices -- are solely the purview of individual states. States set the hour that their polling places will be open. They decide whether or not a voter is required to show a form of legal identification in order to cast the ballot. They decide on what dates their primaries will be held. And yes, they get to decide -- as many states did in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic -- whether or not to expand mail-in balloting.(It's also worth noting here that Paxton's lawsuit runs directly counter to the long-held Republican belief that states, not the federal government, should have broad jurisdiction over how they conduct their own affairs.)"I read just the summary of it, and I frankly struggle to understand the legal theory of it," Texas Republican Sen. John Cornyn told CNN's Manu Raju Wednesday night about the Paxton suit. "Number one, why would a state, even such a great state as Texas, have a say so on how other states administer their elections? We have a diffused and dispersed system and even though we might not like it, they may think it's unfair ... those are decided at the state and local level and not at the national level. So it's an interesting theory, but I'm not convinced."Uh, yeah.Put plainly: There is NO way the Supreme Court is going to get involved in this sort of lawsuit. As Andrew C. McCarthy, writing in the conservative National Review, put it: "The justices are not going to have the slightest interest in entertaining a sprawling lawsuit brought by an unaffected third-party state — one that, if Texas got its way, would forevermore thrust the Supreme Court into the thick of electoral politics."No, they are not. After all, the court dismissed -- in a single sentence! -- an attempt earlier this week by Pennsylvania Republicans to block the certification of the 2020 results in the Keystone State (where President-elect Joe Biden won by more than 81,000 votes). The Supreme Court -- led by Chief Justice John Roberts -- has zero interest in dabbling in electoral politics. And this suit, brought by Paxton, would force the court to do a lot more than dabble. If Paxton and Trump get what they want, it would effectively overturn the vote in four swing states -- swinging not just those states but the presidency from Biden to Trump.In short: This is not a serious legal case or argument being put forward by Paxton and Trump. It is a political document aimed at shoring up the Trump base through distraction and misinformation. And it is being offered and supported not by people who think it has genuine legal merit, but rather who want Trump to know just how much they support him -- for their own selfish reasons.Take Paxton. In October, seven top aides accused him of bribery and abuse of his office. Paxton needs the support of Trump now more than ever -- and what better way to curry that favor than to play to the President's belief that he actually somehow won the election? And right on cue, Trump has responded -- not only signing on to Paxton's lawsuit on Wednesday but inviting him to the White House on Thursday. That's mission accomplished for Paxton! And so quickly, too!For Trump, the goal -- as ever -- is to retain the image of himself as the consummate winner, and, in so doing, to keep the loyalty of the Republican Party base. As the Bulwark's Jonathan V. Last wrote so tellingly of Trump on Wednesday: "So for Trump, the lawsuits, the posturing, the couping — yes, it would be nice if he wound up as president on January 21. But that's the secondary objective. The primary objective was to stop the Republican Party from leaving him and, if possible, tighten his grasp on it. And while everyone laughs at how incompetent Trump's Elite Strike Force has been as a matter of law, they miss how effective it's been as a matter of politics."This Texas suit -- and the Pennsylvania one and the dozens of other frivolous suits Trump and his legal team have brought over the five weeks since the election ended -- isn't about winning a legal fight. It's about preserving political strength. That's all it's ever been about, and all it will ever be about.(CNN) - Kim Kardashian West is asking her millions of followers to help her stop the execution of Brandon Bernard.The reality star tweeted Wednesday that she would be tweeting about the inmate for the next 24 hours in support of #SaveBrandonBernard."Brandon Bernard, a 40-year-old father is going to be executed tomorrow by our federal government. Having gotten to know Brandon, I am heartbroken about this execution," Kardashian West tweeted. "I'm calling on @realDonaldTrump to grant Brandon a commutation and allow him to live out his sentence in prison."Bernard is scheduled to be executed by lethal injection Thursday for his 2000 conviction in the 1999 kidnapping and killing of youth ministers Todd and Stacie Bagley on a military reservation in Texas.One of Bernard's co-defendants, Christopher Vialva, was executed on September 22. Vialva was 19 at the time of the murders.Vialva shot the couple in the head, after which Bernard set the car on fire with them still in the trunk, the Justice Department said. Both were sentenced to the death penalty, while three other teenage defendants received lengthy prison sentences.Kardashian West tweeted a number supporters could call to try and save Bernard's life and also shared why she believed he should be spared. "#BrandonBernard should not be executed: 1. He was 18 at the time. 2. He was not the shooter. 3. The prosecutor and 5 of the jurors now support clemency. 4. He's spent decades in prison w/out a write up, helping at risk youth. 5. There's bipartisan support for his commutation," she wrote.Bernard's attorneys write on his website that he remains remorseful for his actions."Brandon has spent 20 years reflecting on his role in the deaths of both Todd and Stacie Bagley. Brandon is remorseful and ashamed that his actions and inaction contributed to their untimely deaths. Brandon knows that he has inflicted immense pain and suffering on the Bagley family, for which he is deeply sorry," the attorneys write.Kardashian West has had success with her criminal justice advocacy which she went public with in 2018. That's when she aided in the release of Alice Marie Johnson, a first-time non-violent drug offender who had served 21 years of a life sentence, by appealing to President Trump during a meeting at the White House.The President commuted Johnson's sentence and she was released a week later. (CNN) - Douglas Emhoff, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris' husband, will become a member of Georgetown Law Faculty in January, the law school announced Thursday.Emhoff will serve as a Distinguished Visitor from Practice, teaching related coursework starting with "Entertainment Law Disputes" in the upcoming spring semester, according to a release from the school. That will be a two-credit course, according to the transition team.The transition team added that the role will be "separate and apart" from his role as second gentleman, and Emhoff will continue to work with the Biden-Harris transition team to develop the portfolio he will focus on to support the work of the Administration."I've long wanted to teach and serve the next generation of young lawyers," Emhoff said in a statement. "I couldn't be more excited to join the Georgetown community." Emhoff will also serve as a Distinguished Fellow of Georgetown Law's Institute for Technology Law and Policy, as part of a new entertainment and media law initiative that will include a speaker series and other projects, the release added.His role at Georgetown will come after the precedent set by former second lady Jill Biden, who worked as a community college teacher during the Obama administration and has said, as first lady, she plans to continue to teach.In November, a campaign spokesperson confirmed Emhoff will sever all ties with his law firm DLA Piper by Inauguration Day.A partner of the prominent law firm, he took a leave of absence soon after Harris was picked to be Biden's running mate in August.He practiced law in intellectual property and technology and its media, sports and entertainment sector, according to the firm's website.During the general election, he devoted a majority of his days to campaigning for the ticket, crisscrossing the country to hold his own events in Michigan, Ohio and Texas, among other battleground states. Emhoff also hosted solo online events and fundraisers.Emhoff is breaking barriers of his own, becoming the first male spouse, and Jewish spouse of a vice president. The pair were married in 2014.(CNN) - The House subcommittee on the coronavirus crisis is requesting an interview with US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Robert Redfield after the panel describes concerns in a new letter over potential efforts by the Trump administration to "conceal and destroy evidence" of interference from political appointees in the work of career officials dealing with pandemic response.  The letter, sent to Redfield and Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar by Democratic subcommittee chairman Jim Clyburn, states that a career CDC official told the panel she was ordered to delete an email -- an instruction she understood came from Redfield -- where an HHS appointee "demanded that CDC alter or rescind truthful scientific reports he believed were damaging to President Trump."According to the letter, Dr. Charlotte Kent, chief of the scientific publications branch and editor-in-chief of the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly report at CDC, told subcommittee staff earlier this week that she was told to delete an email sent on August 8 by Health and Human Services senior adviser Dr. Paul Alexander. The letter states that the panel was not given the email by the department despite its request, but notes that an excerpt was published in the media. It includes an excerpt in which Alexander is critical of the CDC, saying, according to the letter, "CDC tried to report as if once kids get together, there will be spread and this will impact school reopening .... Very misleading by CDC and shame on them. Their aim is clear ... This is designed to hurt this Presidnet [sic]."An HHS spokesperson pushed back on the panel's assertions and accused the subcommittee of "not operating in good faith." In a statement to CNN, the spokesperson said, "The Subcommittee's characterization of the conversation with Dr. Kent is irresponsible. We urge the Subcommittee to release the transcript in full which will show that during her testimony Dr. Kent repeatedly said there was no political interference in the MMWR process." The statement added, "Despite HHS working diligently to accommodate the Select Subcommittee's many requests, the Subcommittee is not operating in good faith."Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat, writes in the letter, "I am deeply concerned that the Trump Administration's political meddling with the nation's coronavirus response has put American lives at greater risk, and that Administration officials may have taken steps to conceal and destroy evidence of this dangerous conduct." London  (CNN) - The UK became the first country to begin administering a fully vetted and approved Covid-19 vaccine this week, starting with the elderly and frontline health workers.Thousands of people have been given doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine since the rollout began on Tuesday. But some have questioned the speed at which it was approved by UK regulators as two health care workers -- who both carried an adrenaline auto injector and had a history of allergic reactions -- had allergic symptoms after receiving the shot.CNN asked UK residents for their views, and whether they would take the vaccine once it was made available to them. Most said they were eager to have the injection and return to normal life after months separated from loved ones. But others, including those with separate health issues, voiced doubts about the vaccine's safety after its rapid development and approval process, and said they would prefer to wait to see any long-term effects.'Watching others die gives me flashbacks'Hamza Ansari, a trauma doctor at the Royal Shrewsbury Hospital in western England, has more reason than most to be relieved that a vaccine is available. He nearly died after contracting Covid-19 while treating patients in March, and has since witnessed many deaths from the disease."I am extremely pleased and excited we finally have a vaccine and look forward to getting it," he said. "This vaccine to me means a great deal, we are giving people a fighting chance."Ansari spent nine days in a high dependency unit on 100% oxygen for respiratory failure. He said he was back at work two weeks after he was discharged, despite not having fully recovered, because his team "needed all hands on the frontline.""Watching others die gives me flashbacks of what I went through," he said. "It's tough to watch, I've been through it and all we can do is guide them and support them, hoping they'll make it out alive."He said the biggest concern was asymptomatic carriers who spread the virus without realizing it."Our goal is to prevent people from contracting the virus and keeping them out of hospital. This is a first step in a long journey," he said.John Swindells, from Lancashire, northern England, said it felt as though "life has been on hold this year," with his daughter's wedding in April, his son's wedding on New Year's Eve and his 40th wedding anniversary cruise all canceled. He said he was just waiting for the call to have the vaccine, "which we would have without any hesitation so that we can plan for the future.""Even a much smaller Christmas is bearable now there is light at the end of a long dark tunnel where we have spent virtually nine months stuck at home," said the 69-yitear-old. He said the approval of the vaccine was a "huge boost" and "gives us hope we can meet family and friends again" and take vacations.But Bridget Jones, from Sevenoaks in Kent, said she would not have the vaccine because of her medical history of reacting to previous shots. The 60-year-old said she was "NOT an anti-vaxxer" but explained: "I have had cancer twice, my immunity is low and I am worried what effect the vaccine will have because of this."After Wednesday's news that two UK health workers had suffered allergic reactions to the shot, Jones added: "This hasn't exactly improved my thoughts about taking the vaccine. In fact it has made me even less inclined to take it."Getting the shotMeanwhile, Aiah Mbriwa, from Reading, west of London, said he couldn't wait to have the vaccine before he was given his first dose on Wednesday. The 41-year-old, a Sierra Leonean working in the UK's health and social care sector while studying, traveled with colleagues and waited for more than two hours to get the shot. "Vaccination is my best bet so far and I am going for it without fear or hesitation," he said.Afterwards, Mbriwa said it all went well, except for some delays in the process, and he was pleased to have had the vaccine: "The injection itself was not painful to me ... I have not experienced anything unusual or abnormal."He added: "I believe the beginning of anything is bound to have teething issues and with all personnel trying to be careful to get it all right first time, I cannot complain."Others are in no hurry. Jill Bunker, an American living in Manchester in northern England, said she wanted to know more about long-term effects. "I just have a little bit of hesitation," she said. "I'm okay with not going first."She said she would like to see the effects on people in six months to a year, and learn how long the protection lasted."People talked about a lot at the beginning of the pandemic about how a vaccine takes years and years and years to be developed. And then all of a sudden, we have one and we're supposed to believe that it's safe."The 31-year-old said many women she knew were worried about the effects while pregnant, breastfeeding or trying to get pregnant.UK regulators have said that until more evidence is available, people who are pregnant, breastfeeding or planning to get pregnant within three months should delay their vaccination.Stephen Leadbetter, from Staffordshire in England's West Midlands, said he probably wouldn't take the vaccine if he was offered it this week."I am worried about side-effects of the vaccine at present, as I don't believe that the UK's express approval of the first available Western vaccine has been carried out with due scientific diligence," said the 29-year-old."Vaccination will ultimately protect my family, but I am worried that there may be a price months down the line that may not be foreseen with such an expedient review and approval process."Alan Duncan, 64, said only one person he knew was in a hurry to get the vaccine, and that was because they have heart problems. "My main concern is that never in the history of vaccine development has a safe one been found in a matter of months," he said."Many vaccines have had to be extensively refined and tested before mass use. "Vaccines are not magic bullets, many of them are not 100% effective and all can have side-effects, some serious."As the UK announced the approval of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine on December 2, the country's health department said the decision "follows months of rigorous clinical trials and a thorough analysis of the data" by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, which had "concluded that the vaccine has met its strict standards of safety, quality and effectiveness."Loved ones at riskClaire, from London, said she would have the vaccine and -- more importantly -- she wanted her elderly and clinically vulnerable mother to take it too."I would like to see her again," said Claire. "I don't have any reservations."CNN agreed to identify Claire by her first name only, given her family's request for privacy during a difficult year.The 54-year-old said her father died in a care home from Alzheimer's disease this year and she hasn't seen her mother since his funeral in early summer."We didn't see dad after early March as the home went into lockdown before the actual lockdown. We weren't there at the end because he decided to leave us without warning," she said.She said she hoped her father was unaware that his family was not there when he died.Vincent McCabe, from Bognor Regis in West Sussex, has been caring for his younger brother after he was severely injured in a motorcycle accident last December.He said he had been taking "every possible measure to protect him from getting Covid 19," including using PPE at all times."I will get vaccinated as soon as it is made available to me, because it is the responsible thing to do, and to further protect my younger brother from getting Covid from me."McCabe said he is not at the front of the line for the vaccine, but will have it once it is available for the 60-65 age group."A vaccine might cause unwanted side-effects in a small number of people, but we know that Covid kills," he said. Matt Grant, 39, is an American working in London who usually travels to Philadelphia every three weeks to see his children, aged 8 and 10. The pandemic and mandated quarantines on both sides of the Atlantic have made it much harder, and he has gone several months at a time without seeing them."It has been terrible," Grant said, adding that he had managed to travel for Thanksgiving and was currently in quarantine in the UK.Grant said he welcomed the vaccine and saw it as a "great day," but he said he worried that airlines could impose bans on people who have not been vaccinated. "If this is done before it is made available to everyone, it has the potential to limit my ability to travel back and forth to see my children," he said.Bridget Schiller, also from Reading, said she had "a terrible phobia of needles" but also wanted to travel and see her parents, who she hasn't seen in a year."I normally spend Christmas with them in Florida but this year I'm in Reading and they're alone in Florida," she said."I want to hug them, help them set up the smart TV they got on Black Friday and just run errands for them."So phobia or not I will be getting the vaccine."Editor's Note: Peggy Drexler is a research psychologist, documentary producer and the author of "Our Fathers, Ourselves: Daughters, Fathers, and the Changing American Family" and "Raising Boys Without Men." The opinions expressed in this commentary are hers. View more opinion on CNN.(CNN) - First lady Melania Trump is packing her bags and planning her departure from the White House, according to CNN reporting. That shouldn't surprise anyone, and not just because President Donald Trump still won't accept that he lost to Joe Biden, even after the US Supreme Court declined Tuesday to hear yet another challenge to the election results, and even as he continues to tweet accusations of fraud and compare the election to that of a third world nation. And yet, the first lady appears to have reached the acceptance stage -- and perhaps eagerly, it would seem. Why wouldn't she?  After four years -- in a relationship that she knew from the start was at least "in some aspect ... transactional, no matter how much she loved him or how much he loved her," as Kate Bennett wrote in her 2019 biography of Melania Trump -- she has mainly held up her end of the First Couple franchise. Mission accomplished.  And whatever Melania Trump's attempts now to fashion a legacy, as she is reportedly pondering as she leaves her East Wing role behind, she may in fact be most memorable for being not so memorable at all. Now, according to Bennett's reporting on CNN, Melania Trump is figuring out what to put in storage, what of her personal belongings to take from the "people's house" to send to the family's New York City apartment, and what should go to Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, where she will go, post-haste, with their 14-year-old son, Barron (he'll reportedly finish out his school year there). And she is busy redecorating; her personal decorator has been for the last several weeks focused on the couple's new main address at Mar-a-Lago. Focus, no doubt, officially shifted. She has also (perhaps tellingly) inquired, according to two sources familiar with the discussions, about whether there were taxpayer funds allocated to supply her a budget and staff for post-White House life (there are not).Sources also said, according to Bennett, that like other former first ladies she is indeed giving some thought to her legacy -- the causes to support, the memoir to write. It's possible, said a publishing industry source, there will be a coffee table book about her design influence in the White House, which has included renovating the Rose Garden, building the tennis pavilion, and most recently, choosing the administration's official china service, per the custom of outgoing first ladies. Of course, given the minor press her White House projects have received -- including her relatively modest "Be Best" initiative (aimed at helping children) -- and the first lady's scant interest in taking part in the role, even a coffee table book seems to be more than her public should expect. After all, she has spent nearly four years largely silent and steely-eyed.But there were noteworthy moments that will certainly live on. Like when she tweeted a remembrance of Pearl Harbor with the wrong date (she quickly deleted it). Or wore a Zara jacket on her way to visit detained immigrant kids at the border that read on its back, "I really don't care, do u?". It seemed a pretty unambiguous statement.  (She later told an ABC News interviewer that her intent in wearing the jacket to visit the children, who had been separated from their parents, was to tweak the "left-wing media.") She also didn't show much interest in the public's expectations of displays of affection for her husband. Indeed, there have been countless examples of Melania Trump's apparent sheer disinterest in publicly touching the President, spontaneously smiling at him or walking near him, with the few exceptions of the last four years coming in the weeks leading up to the 2020 election, when they made a few shows of PDA. What becomes of Melania Trump? We may never know the details of the couple's marital arrangement -- aside from details revealed of their prenup, supposedly renegotiated before she agreed to move to Washington, DC, following his 2016 win -- which might offer a clue about her options. And her inquiries about the taxpayer funds for post-FLOTUS endeavors may suggest she'd be unable to leave him (were she so inclined) completely without a supportive arrangement. Then again, they were just inquiries, and she IS a Trump: why leave free money on the table? In the end none of us know what's going on inside another's marriage, despite what we might try to predict from tea leaves. Certainly many -- particularly those who have long fantasized that Melania Trump was a victim to be freed-- would like to see her jump the Trump ship, now that the gig is finished. Certainly it would give her profile a boost. But that is, as it has been with this inscrutable first lady from the start, speculation.  In fact, her swift preparations for moving day, are likely telegraphing something as simple as this: At the very least, Melania Trump is quite ready to move the hell on from this presidency, pretty much like many of the rest of us. (CNN Business) - A version of this article first appeared in the "Reliable Sources" newsletter. You can sign up for free right here.Imagine that 15 passenger jets full of Covid-19 patients crashed today, all across the United States, and killed everyone on board. Because that's what happened minus the airplanes. More than 3,034 deaths from coronavirus were reported across the US on Wednesday, according to Johns Hopkins' tally, making this the highest single day reporting of daily new deaths since the pandemic began.At this rate, the official death toll in the US will surpass 300,000 this weekend."We're living through the worst-case scenario for this pandemic," said Alexis Madrigal, the co-founder of the Covid Tracking Project. "And we probably still do not know how bad it actually has been over the past couple weeks." He noted that cases continue to rise and "hospitalizations remain extremely high."Multiple news outlets noted that Wednesday's coronavirus death toll surpassed the toll on 9/11. "The Rachel Maddow Show" led with this graphic, also factoring in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire:Numbing recordsI feel it. You probably do, too. The numbness of these ever-increasing numbers. President-elect Joe Biden talked about this feeling on Tuesday. Every day is a slew of statistics, a barrage of broken records. "Our hearts and our minds block out the enormity of it," grief expert David Kessler told me on last Sunday's "Reliable Sources."That's how humans are wired -- to cope, to adjust, to adapt. So it helps to acknowledge the numbness and talk about it. Talk about the consequences. As Bryan Walsh wrote last month for Axios, "the psychic numbing that sets in around mass death saps us of our empathy for victims and discourages us from making the sacrifices needed to control the pandemic." He said it also "hampers our ability to prepare for other rare but potentially catastrophic risks down the road."Kessler said that "grief must be witnessed," but so many Covid-19 deaths are happening out of sight. And "even if you could see what we see," in hospital wards, "I think it's not psychologically possible for people to grasp the enormity of this," Dr. Esther Choo said on the program. "And yet we need people to absorb enough of the tragedy that it actually drives their behavior so that we can get to the other end of the pandemic." This requires creative storytelling, careful access to hospitals, and compassionate news coverage."Will people remember where they were?"CNN media analyst Bill Carter wrote on Twitter: "Death toll over 3k today. More than 9/11 or Pearl Harbor, both events so devastating they became life markers: 'Where were you when...' Will people remember where they were when they heard 3k died of Covid on 12/09/20? And what the hell happened that so many of us simply don't care?"Imagine what could have been...Public health communication is pivotal in a pandemic. And yet the federal government has failed to communicate. Individual agency leaders and task force members have tried and tried, and they deserve credit, but the Trump WH has abjectly failed. Where were the "fireside chats" early on, the public service announcements, the rallying moments? Where were the creative uses of media to motivate the public to fight a common enemy? It feels too late now. But I keep thinking about all the awful missed opportunities.On Wednesday, Politico's Dan Diamond shared a video of German Chancellor Angela Merkel showing leadership and pleading with the public to take safety precautions. "Trump could hold a press conference like this every day, just reiterating public health advice," Diamond tweeted. "It would reach millions of Americans, cost nothing but his time, and would be one of the simplest ways to fight Covid-19. That he doesn't is as revealing as any decision this year."300,000 individual storiesThe human cost of Covid-19 is covered one by one, story by story, obit by obit. Last week Rebecca Lopez, a veteran reporter for WFAA TV in Dallas, paid tribute to her mother Amalia Gonzales, who died on Thanksgiving."I just urge people, if there's anything you hear from us today by telling our story -- as difficult as it is -- just protect yourself and protect others," Lopez said in an interview on her home station.(CNN) - All 50 states and the District of Columbia have now certified their presidential results, according to CNN's tally, as the Electoral College process moves forward with the meeting of electors on Monday.  West Virginia became the final state to certify its presidential election results Wednesday, formally declaring that President Donald Trump is entitled to the state's five electoral votes. President-elect Joe Biden is projected to win 306 electoral votes, and Trump is projected to win 232. It takes 270 electoral votes of the 538 available to become president.  The states' certifications come as Trump has baselessly claimed that the election was rigged and sowed doubt about the outcome of the presidential race. Dozens of lawsuits challenging the results have been dismissed at the state and federal levels across the country since the November election.    Each state has different processes for certifying results, and some states certified their slate of presidential electors separately from state and local election results.   The next major step in the Electoral College process is the meeting of the electors, who are required by law to convene on the first Monday after the second Wednesday in December, which this year is December 14. The electors' votes are later transmitted to officials and counted in a joint session of Congress on January 6.  Some states have laws that seek to bind their electors to the winning candidate and in some instances stipulate that so-called "faithless electors" may be subject to penalties or replaced by another elector. The Supreme Court ruled this summer that such laws punishing members of the Electoral College for breaking a pledge to vote for the state's popular vote winner are constitutional. Washington  (CNN) - Morocco has become the fourth country in the Middle East and North African region to agree to establish full diplomatic relations with Israel, an 11th-hour foreign policy achievement for the lame duck Trump administration as it seeks to shore up regional support for Israel as a countermeasure to Iranian aggression.As part of the deal, the US announced that it "recognizes Moroccan sovereignty over the entire Western Sahara territory," a huge win for Morocco's government but one that compromises the position of the region's indigenous Sahrawi population, which has long sounded alarms over unfair treatment and persecution by the government in Rabat."Another HISTORIC breakthrough today! Our two GREAT friends Israel and the Kingdom of Morocco have agreed to full diplomatic relations -- a massive breakthrough for peace in the Middle East!" President Donald Trump said on Twitter Thursday.Morocco was once home to one of the largest Jewish populations in the Middle East and North Africa, much of which fled to Europe and the US after Israel declared independence in 1948, leaving many Jews in Arab countries fearful for their safety. This move may encourage many Jewish Moroccans to visit their ancestral homeland as it now embraces Israel.The move follows recent announcements by the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Sudan to establish diplomatic ties with Israel, deals largely brokered by the President's senior adviser and son-in-law Jared Kushner and a team of negotiators. Egypt and Jordan have longstanding diplomatic ties with Israel. Efforts by Kushner to broker ties between Israel and Saudi Arabia have thus far fallen short, although Kushner, on a recent trip, was able to secure an agreement to allow Israeli commercial flights to use Saudi Arabian airspace. The effort comes as the Trump administration looks to create a block of solidarity between Israel and several Arab countries as a means for countering Iranian aggression in the region. While the White House touts the deals as peace plans, none of these countries have been at war with Israel. Morocco is nearly 4,000 miles away from Israel.Significantly, the Trump administration's recognition of Morocco's sovereignty over the Sahara raises concerns that Washington is legitimizing the alleged oppression of its indigenous population. The region located in Southern Morocco and stretching East into the Algerian desert, has been locked in a four-decade battle for sovereignty. Known to some as "Africa's last colony," it has been the heart of ambitious development plans by the Moroccan government, which is seeking to boost investments, create jobs, and appease the indigenous Sahrawi population that has long sought independence. Sahrawis, backed by the Polisario Front liberation movement, have since called for independence from the rest of Morocco, claiming that they are living under occupation. In 1976, as Moroccan forces clashed with Polisario fighters in a bloody guerilla war, the rebel group and its supporters were virtually pushed out of the Western Sahara and into Tindouf, Algeria, where tens of thousands of people have lived in refugee camps to this day.Officials with the Polisario maintain that the Moroccan government is looking to monopolize Western Saharan resources, while giving little back to the indigenous community. Fishing is a coveted industry in the region that employs more than 40,000 people in the Dakhla region alone. In 2011, a decision by the European Union parliament to cancel a $46 million deal allowing trawlers from EU countries to fish in Moroccan waters prompted the kingdom to immediately ban all European fishing boats from its shores. While clashes between pro-autonomy activists and Moroccan forces still occur in spurts, the region has remained relatively calm since a 1991 UN-brokered ceasefire, with other regional conflict and turmoil often stealing the Polisario's thunder.Washington  (CNN) - The Trump administration has finalized a regulation that would place more limits on migrants seeking refuge in the United States, the latest in a series of rules that make it exceedingly difficult to claim asylum in the US and serving as yet another example of the challenges an incoming Biden administration will face in undoing President Donald Trump's policies.Under the rule, for example, an individual's asylum claim could face greater scrutiny if the person traveled through at least one country while on the way to the US but didn't seek refuge there. The Trump administration applied a similar rule to migrants traveling through Mexico from Latin America, but the latest rule widens the scope of people who could fall under those restrictions, with some exceptions, such as a victim of human trafficking.The regulation also says that living unlawfully in the US for more than a year prior to filing for asylum would be considered a "significant adverse factor," despite exceptions that currently exist. Similarly, failure to file taxes or having a criminal conviction could count against an individual's asylum claim."The Final Rule, consistent with the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), will enable the Departments to more effectively separate baseless claims from meritorious ones," the Justice Department said in a release Thursday. The 419-page regulation is expected to take effect in mid-January, days before President-elect Joe Biden takes office.Biden will inherit the Trump administration's restrictionist immigration agenda. While the latest asylum rule is likely to face legal challenges, it's an example of the type of policies Biden has pledged to undo. The makeup of the Biden-Harris transition team reviewing the Department of Homeland Security appears to signal the incoming administration's awareness of those actions, with Ur Jaddou, former chief counsel at US Citizenship and Immigration Services, as the team lead, and with the selection of Alejandro Mayorkas as Homeland Security secretary. But undoing policies -- as Biden has said he'd do -- will be a steep challenge, both logistically and politically.The regulation is set to publish in the Federal Register on Friday.(CNN) - Health officials in San Francisco project intensive care unit (ICU) capacity will run out by December 27 if Covid-19 numbers continue to climb as fast as they are now. That is "in just 17 days," Health Director Dr. Grant Colfax said Wednesday. "And that's if things don't even get worse, but they very well may." There are 123 Covid-19 patients across San Francisco, Colfax said, a number higher than ever before that shows "no signs of going down." Thirty of those patients are in intensive care units. "This number is climbing, and climbing rapidly. Now, not only by the day, but by the hour."The city is experiencing by far its worst surge to date, Colfax said, adding the virus is "everywhere in our city right now.""And in so many neighborhoods where it hasn't taken hold before," Colfax said. "Even lower-risk activities now carry substantial risk because there's more virus out there than ever before."And the surge has also been fueled by the gatherings that took place over the Thanksgiving holiday. Since then, at least 167 people are testing positive for the virus daily, and the average case rate per 100,000 has skyrocketed since Thanksgiving week -- from 15 to 30. "The reality is unfortunately proving to be as harsh as we expected," Colfax said.Last week, Gov. Gavin Newsom announced a strict regional stay-at-home order that would go into effect 48 hours after hospital ICU capacity drops below 15% in one of five regions the state is divided into: Northern California, Bay Area, Greater Sacramento, San Joaquin Valley and Southern California.But several Bay Area governments decided not to wait for that threshold and implemented the order -- among them, San Francisco. The order took effect Sunday, San Francisco officials announced, and is expected to stay in effect through January 4."We will lift it once our hospital capacity is stable, and case rates improve for 3 weeks," officials said. Under the order, gatherings with people outside a single household are not allowed, restaurants can only operate takeout and delivery services and some businesses, like hair and nail salons, must close. "To be blunt, we have one chance to turn this serious surge around and that chance is right now," Colfax said Wednesday. "But out window is narrowing and closing fast."(CNN) - The Supreme Court ruled 8-0 on Thursday that the military can prosecute at any time sexual assault cases committed between 1986 and 2006, overturning what had been a loophole of a five-year statute of limitations that existed for military sexual assault before 2006.The case centered on three men in the Air Force whose rape convictions were overturned in 2018 -- including one whose confession the Air Force recorded -- when the top military appeals court affirmed that the five-year statute of limitations existed for military sexual assault before 2006. That decision lead to the rape convictions of at least four service members being vacated.Historically, under military law, any crime must be charged within five years. But in 1986, Congress exempted crimes -- including rape -- that were punishable by the death sentence from the five-year statute of limitations. In 2006, Congress revised the military code again, making clear that rape could be prosecuted "at any time without limitation.""Respondents' prosecutions for rape under the (Uniform Code of Military Justice) were timely," conservative Justice Samuel Alito wrote Thursday. The ruling marks the first time the justices considered a sexual assault issue in the #MeToo era, wading into a years-long controversy over how the military addresses sexual misconduct in its ranks as service branches continue to face scrutiny over their lack of progress countering the problem.One of the men previously convicted before the top military appeals court's 2018 ruling was Air Force Lt. Col. Michael Briggs, who in a 2013 phone call confessed to raping SSgt. "DK" in 2005. After receiving a call from the victim, Briggs detailed how he went to her room after a long night of drinking, pushed himself on her and continued to have sex with her despite pleas for him to stop.A recording of that call played in a military court in 2014. Briggs was tried by a judge, found guilty and sentenced to five months in prison, dismissed from the Air Force and registered as a sex offender. DK said Thursday that when the decision came down, her husband held her and together they cried. But while the Supreme Court win was a personal victory, for other victims it could prove to be life-changing. "Hopefully other victims will see this case and hopefully some of their faith in the justice system for the military will be restored," she told CNN. "Maybe now more victims will come forward. Maybe they'll see that the military does care, that the government does care. They don't have to suffer in silence, they don't have to be scared -- they have a voice." Harmony Allen, who was raped and beaten by Master Sgt. Richard D. Collins on Texas' Sheppard Air Force Base in 2000, said Thursday that "having an 8-0 unanimous panel speaks volumes to how seriously this country is taking the stance against rape in the military."Collins was tried for Allen's rape before a military court on Eglin Air Force Base in Florida in late February 2017. A jury of his peers found Collins guilty of rape and sentenced him to 16 and a half years in prison, but he was released after serving just two years of his sentence due to the top military appeals court's decision."Going through the trial and having him get out made me feel worse than going through the actual rape, because I had to relive the rape and gruesome details to a court full of strangers," Allen said. "To put yourself through that and then have the military say, 'that's great that that happened, but we're going to let him go free,' and just trying mentally to deal with that -- it's been impossible to heal from the rape. With him going back and with the country standing behind rape victims, I think this is going to bring healing to me and a lot of other victims."The Pentagon's report on sexual assault from 2018 showed a 38% uptick in sexual assault. One out of 16 women in the military reported being sexually assaulted within the last year, and lower-ranking female service members -- ages 17 to 24 -- were especially likely to be victims.Justice Amy Coney Barrett was not on the bench when the case was heard.Israel and Morocco have agreed to normalize relations, President Donald Trump announced on Thursday, marking the fourth Arab-Israel agreement in four months. As part of the deal, the U.S. will recognize Morocco's claim over the disputed Western Sahara region.As his time in office winds down, Trump said Israel and Morocco would restore diplomatic and other relations, including the immediate reopening of liaison offices in Rabat and Tel Aviv and the eventual opening of embassies. U.S. officials said it would also include joint overflight rights for airlines.The White House said Trump and Morocco's King Mohammed VI had agreed in a conversation that Morocco would “resume diplomatic relations between Morocco and Israel and expand economic and cultural cooperation to advance regional stability.”The U.S. will also recognize the country's claim over Western Sahara, the former Spanish North African territory that has been a long-running dispute that has confounded international negotiators for decades, the White House said in a statement.Morocco is the fourth Arab nation to recognize Israel as the administration seeks to expand its “Abraham Accords” framework, which began over the summer with an agreement between the Jewish state and the United Arab Emirates.Bahrain and Sudan have followed suit and administration officials have also been trying to bring Saudi Arabia into the grouping.“The president reaffirmed his support for Morocco’s serious, credible, and realistic autonomy proposal as the only basis for a just and lasting solution to the dispute over the Western Sahara territory and as such the president recognized Moroccan sovereignty over the entire Western Sahara territory,” the White House said.During the conversation, the king agreed to resume diplomatic relations between Morocco and Israel and expand economic and cultural cooperation to advance regional stability.All of these countries are geographically far removed from the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, making it easier to strike deals with Israel and the U.S. for their own particular interests. Morocco also has close ties with Saudi Arabia, which has given its tacit support to the normalization process with Israel, even at a time when peace making with the Palestinians is at a standstill.Morocco, a country with centuries of Jewish history, has long been rumored to be ready to establish ties with Israel.Before Israel’s establishment in 1948, Morocco was home to a large Jewish population, many of whose ancestors migrated to North Africa from Spain and Portugal during the Spanish Inquisition. Today, hundreds of thousands of Israeli Jews trace their lineage to Morocco, making it one of the country’s largest sectors of Israeli society, and a small community of Jews, estimated at several thousand people, continues to live in Morocco.The North African country has for years had informal ties with Israel.Israel and Morocco established low-level diplomatic relations during the 1990s following Israel’s interim peace accords with the Palestinians, but those ties were suspended after the outbreak of the second Palestinian uprising in 2000. Since then, however, the informal ties have continued, and an estimated 50,000 Israelis travel to Morocco each year on trips to learn about the Jewish community and retrace their family histories.Doug Emhoff, the husband of Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, will be teaching at the Georgetown University's law school in Washington, D.C., next semester, according to a press release from the university. He’ll serve as a “Distinguished Visitor from Practice” and a Distinguished Fellow of the Georgetown Law Institute. “I’ve long wanted to teach and serve the next generation of young lawyers,” Emhoff said in a statement. “I couldn’t be more excited to join the Georgetown community.” The course on entertainment and media law will be Emhoff's first teaching gig, according to a transition official. Until recently, he was a prominent entertainment and media lawyer and partner at DLA Piper in Los Angeles. Since Harris joined the Democratic ticket in August, Emhoff has been on a leave of absence from the firm and has plans to completely cut ties before Inauguration Day. Jill Biden will also juggle her official role as first lady with teaching English at Northern Virginia Community College. This will be the first time in history that spouses of the president and vice president keep a day job. Both the first and second spouses typically carve out their own pet issues — as second lady when her husband was vice president, Jill Biden focused on military families. Emhoff’s role as second gentleman has yet to be fully fleshed out by the Biden-Harris transition team. “This role at Georgetown will be separate and apart from his official role as second gentleman, and Mr. Emhoff continues to work with the Biden-Harris transition team to develop the portfolio he will focus on to support the work of the administration,” a transition official with knowledge of the decision told POLITICO. Though it’s not clear what his portfolio might be during the administration, Emhoff has mentioned food insecurity and access to justice as possible areas of focus.“This concept of access to justice is something that I want to bring to the fore in that role. But I’ll also add, look at where we are right now. It's gonna be a lot of work for President Biden, Vice President Harris, First Lady Jill Biden and whatever-my-title-will-be Douglas Emhoff," he said in September, "We're gonna have to reestablish trust in government from the American people after four years of lies and gaslighting and incompetence. The American people deserve better. And I'm going to do everything I can with Joe and Kamala and Jill, to help restore that trust both here domestically, and with our friends around the world. So I'm committed to doing that as well.”President-elect Joe Biden will nominate longtime Obama aide Denis McDonough for secretary of Veterans Affairs, according to two people with knowledge of the decision.McDonough served as former President Barack Obama’s chief of staff from 2013 until 2017.McDonough had not been widely talked about as a leading contender for the VA job, which has traditionally gone to a veteran. The public discussion had largely focused on former Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg, Illinois Sen. Tammy Duckworth and more recently, former Pennsylvania Rep. Patrick Murphy.Biden picked McDonough because he felt he was crisis-tested and knows how to pull the levers of government, according to a source close to the transition. Biden was also impressed by McDonough regularly visiting Walter Reed National Military Medical Center and making a point of visiting troops in the field while he was deputy national security adviser under Obama.“When I received the call from President-elect Biden, I assured him that I will represent the voices of all veterans at every level, on every issue, every day,” McDonough wrote on Twitter following the announcement. “Those who have served this nation, their caregivers and survivors should expect nothing less.”But Biden’s decision not to tap a veteran for the job surprised veterans service organizations and leaders who expected the president-elect to continue a tradition of having a war veteran lead the VA. McDonough was a longtime Capitol Hill staffer before he joined the Obama campaign in 2008, and he then served in various foreign policy roles in the White House before becoming chief of staff."It’s a shockingly out of touch pick ... they could have selected someone who’s been a patient there or has any direct experience with that community," said Paul Rieckhoff, founder of the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. "The idea that Biden couldn’t find a qualified candidate among the more than 3 million veterans feels exceptionally patronizing." “We have a lot of veterans who still have trouble trusting the VA,” said Joe Chenelly, national executive director of AMVETS. “I’m not sure that having someone at the helm who’s not a veteran is going to be helpful in the near term.”Chenelly also noted concern that McDonough does not appear to have “much experience with the intricacies of the VA.”“Although the VA central office and the White House are just across the street from each other, it’s a big distance when it comes to knowledge of what’s happening on the ground,” he said.Some veterans service and labor organizations said they had not been consulted with about the decision in advance, a disappointment after four years during which they felt frozen out by the Trump administration. While not directly criticizing McDonough, one person involved with an outside organization said the process that led to his nomination “was left wanting” given the lack of communication. LGBTQ and minority veterans had also been organizing support behind Murphy, an Iraq War veteran who introduced and championed the push to repeal the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy while in Congress in 2010.“We’re just now crossing the 10-year anniversary of the repeal … and so a lot of those service members who were able to serve openly, and have been serving openly since then, are now themselves becoming veterans and looking for services from the Veterans Administration,” said Zeke Stokes, a former chief programs officer with GLAAD who this week organized a letter to the transition in support of Murphy, which was signed by more than 150 LGBTQ and minority veteran leaders.“Knowing that there’s someone there who has been in the fight with them as a veteran, and someone who is a demonstrated LGBTQ ally, I think is something they are looking for,” Stokes said.David Shulkin, who served as under secretary of Veterans Affairs for health during the latter part of the Obama administration and then became secretary under Trump, said McDonough is “going to have a big learning curve on specific issues when it comes to the VA" if he is confirmed.“But he knows how the deal with the complexity of Washington and how to get things done and that’s a good sign for the VA,” Shulkin said.McDonough did not immediately respond to a request for comment.As head of the agency, McDonough will be tasked with implementing one long-term, large-scale project high stakes: overhauling the VA’s medical records system to a new, private-sector system designed by Kansas City-based Cerner. The replacement system would mesh with the one Cerner is building for the Defense Department and also connect with private sector health providers’ electronic health records.Initiated by Trump White House adviser Jared Kushner, and budgeted for $16 billion over 10 years, the project is widely expected to take longer and cost more to implement. Whether or not it'll achieve its stated goal — making sure service members' medical records follow them from enlistment, post-discharge, and through the sprawling Veterans Affairs' system — remains to be seen. The Cerner VA system has already taken its first baby steps, rolling out its records in Spokane, Wash., after several delays. Since leaving the White House, McDonough has been teaching classes at the Keough School of Global Affairs at the University of Notre Dame. He has also been overseeing the school’s Presidential Transition Index that is tracking the Biden transition.One former Obama administration official who served with McDonough said it "speaks very highly of him that he's willing to go into that bureaucracy — some might say morass.”“A lot of people do really good work there, but you have to cut through layers of red tape and disappointment,” the person said. “McDonough is like an ascetic — a holy man in that he is almost a glutton for punishment."Alice Miranda Ollstein and Darius Tahir contributed to this report.Rand Paul is at it again. And his moves could force another brief government shutdown. The Kentucky Republican is objecting to swift passage of the annual defense policy bill, effectively forcing senators to remain in Washington for an extra day as he filibusters the $740 billion legislation. But the government needs to be funded past Friday — and the short one-week spending bill can't be passed before then without agreement from all 100 senators to vote.  Paul, no stranger to filibusters, said in an interview Thursday that he opposes a provision in the bill that would hamstring the president’s ability to draw down American troops from Afghanistan. “That amendment alone is enough to make me object to it, as well as the amount of spending,” he said. Removing a provision from a conference report would destroy a massive agreement on defense spending. Paul said he would drop his objection if GOP leaders allowed a final vote on the National Defense Authorization Act on Monday, which would require the Senate to go through the procedural motions. But Republicans are eager to finish work on it this week, in addition to a one-week government funding bill to avoid a shutdown. Paul offered to allow swift passage of the stopgap funding bill if GOP leaders punt a final NDAA vote to Monday. “It’s really just a function at this point of letting the clock run and seeing if we can get cooperation. Some of it’s our side, some of it’s their side,” said Senate Majority Whip John Thune (R-S.D.). “If people come together we could probably wrap a couple of things up this week and then work on the big stuff — the spending bill and Covid package — next week.”Drama on the floor ahead of a deadline is nothing new to Paul, who exerts major leverage over the Senate by seizing on imminent deadlines and pushing his priorities. Paul forced a brief shutdown in 2018 over his moves to cut spending, and using the shutdown deadline to try and get extra concessions on the defense bill is vintage Paul. Republicans are hopeful that Paul will, at most, stretch things out right up to the Friday shutdown deadline. Asked how the Senate will deal with the logjam, Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) replied: "I don't know the answer to that but I'm hopeful that it's just a short-term thing. We'll probably be here tomorrow. But I don't know how much longer. I can't imagine anybody wants [a shutdown]." Other senators are also seeking to use the shutdown deadline to push their priorities. Conservatives want votes on legislation to prevent government shutdowns and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) wants a vote on new stimulus checks, Thune told reporters on Thursday afternoon."It is absolutely imperative that we provide $1,200 for every working-class adult and $500 for each of their children. This is what we did, unanimously, in the CARES package passed in March. This is what we must do now. Congress cannot go home until we address this crisis," Sanders said in a statement to POLITICO. The defense bill, which Trump has threatened to veto, passed on a veto-proof majority in the House earlier this week and is expected to win similar support in the Senate, though some Republicans may ultimately side with the president on a veto-override question. “They believe that a president has the power to go to war anywhere anytime,” Paul said on the Senate floor of the bill’s backers. “But when a president tries to remove troops, they say ‘Oh no no. What we really want are 535 generals in Congress to tell him he can’t leave a war.’ “How absurd is that?” Paul asked.  On the floor Thursday, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell hinted the Senate could be in for a late night of debate on the must-pass bill. “For the information of all senators, we should expect the potential for a late night tonight and the possibility of votes tomorrow,” McConnell said. Senate Armed Services Chair Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) lamented on Thursday that some senators always try to “benefit” from must-pass legislation, but he declined to single out Paul. Cornyn said Inhofe's staff informed him that Paul has a hold on the defense bill. Republicans have vowed to override the president’s veto. Congressional leaders are worried that, by seeking to delay a final vote on the defense bill, Paul is trying to make it harder for Congress to ultimately override Trump’s veto. Unless senators can agree to speed up the consideration of the bill, a procedural vote will happen an hour after the Senate convenes on Friday. McConnell filed cloture, a procedural motion to end debate on the bill, on Wednesday. He did not do the same for the spending bill; most senators saw the one-week continuing resolution as an easy lay-up as Congress tries to negotiate a new coronavirus relief bill.  The compromise defense bill attempts to put guardrails on Trump's swift reduction of troops from Afghanistan. The Trump administration is forging ahead with plans to draw down to 2,500 troops in both Afghanistan and Iraq by Jan. 15.The bill would bar the reduction of U.S. troops in Afghanistan below two key levels — 4,000, or the total number of troops on the date the bill becomes law if the number is smaller, and 2,000 — until the Pentagon provides Congress an analysis of how the drawdown would affect U.S. counterterrorism efforts, the risks to American personnel and the potential expansion of terrorist havens, among other criteria. The provision mirrors an amendment attached to the House bill this summer by Reps. Jason Crow (D-Colo.) and Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the House Republican Conference chair and a vocal defense hawk. Republicans and Democrats have criticized the administration's plans to remove troops from Afghanistan a hasty move that could destabilize the country and undermine the U.S. and Afghan government's position in negotiations with the Taliban. Trump has threatened to veto the bill because lawmakers didn't include an unrelated repeal of legal protections for social media companies and because the final bill would force the Pentagon to remove the names of Confederate leaders from military bases. The White House has also staunchly opposed provisions that hinder Trump from drawing down troops from Afghanistan and Europe.President-elect Joe Biden has tapped Barack Obama’s former national security adviser Susan Rice to run the White House Domestic Policy Council, according to people familiar with the decision.Rice, who also served as the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, was vetted to serve as Biden’s vice president and was a contender to be secretary of State, a position that went to Antony Blinken.Democrats had concerns about Rice’s ability to get confirmed in a Republican-controlled Senate, and the director of the Domestic Policy Council is not a Senate-confirmed position. The Biden team had been looking to find a high-profile role for Rice, but the top domestic policy job comes as a surprise given her expertise and experience in foreign policy. A spokesperson for the Biden transition declined to comment. A spokesperson for Rice did not immediately respond to a request for comment.In her position, Rice, 56, will play a large role in implementing Biden’s Build Back Better agenda, a wide-ranging set of policy proposals that would invest trillions of dollars in American infrastructure and manufacturing, clean energy, caregiving, education and racial equity.A person familiar with Biden’s thinking said he chose Rice for the role because of her deep experience in crisis management and interagency processes. The person said Biden does not see foreign, economic and diplomatic realms as separate and discrete and her deep knowledge of how the federal government works will be an asset to implementing his domestic policy agenda. Biden officially announced Rice’s appointment Thursday morning, along with his nominations of Marcia Fudge to run the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Tom Vilsack as Agriculture secretary, Katherine Tai as U.S. trade representative and Denis McDonough as secretary of Veterans Affairs. “The roles they will take on are where the rubber meets the road — where competent and crisis-tested governance can make a meaningful difference in people’s lives, enhancing the dignity, equity, security, and prosperity of the day-to-day lives of Americans,” Biden said in a statement.Rice’s decision to take the domestic policy job also signals that she still harbors political ambitions. She floated the possibility of running for Senate in Maine against Susan Collins and was a finalist to serve as Biden’s running mate. The top domestic policy job will fill out her foreign policy-heavy resume. Though Rice’s job does not require Senate confirmation, the Biden administration will need the support of Republicans to implement its far-reaching domestic policy agenda. Rice, however, has long been the target of the GOP because of her comments after the attack on a U.S. diplomatic facility in Benghazi and unmasking requests related to Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign and foreign interference. Rice has never been charged with doing anything improper, but she has been the subject of withering criticism from Republicans, which could complicate the administration’s efforts to pass policies in Congress.President-elect Joe Biden will travel to Georgia next week to stump for Democrats Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock ahead of their Jan. 5 Senate runoffs. Biden’s transition team announced Thursday that the president-elect will visit Georgia on Dec. 15 to campaign for the two Democratic candidates. The president-elect has traveled sparingly in both the lead up to and aftermath of last month's presidential election as aides seek to minimize the 78-year-old and his team’s potential exposure to Covid-19. Biden narrowly won Georgia, the first time a Democrat has carried the state since 1992 in a presidential election. Biden’s victory in the traditionally bright-red state has fueled unsubstantiated complaints from President Donald Trump and his allies of widespread voter fraud. Efforts by the president and his legal team to overturn election results in Georgia and other swings states have been almost universally rebuffed by courts and state election officials.Trump visited Georgia last weekend, both to gin up enthusiasm for the Senate run offs, and to vent his frustrations with the state’s electoral process. The president has relentlessly hammered the state's Republican statewide officeholders for not doing more to bolster his claims of rampant voter fraud and help him reverse Biden's victory.GOP operatives, in turn, have expressed concern that the allegations of voter impropriety from Trump and other Republicans will drive down enthusiasm within the GOP base and drive down voter turnout for Sens. David Purdue and Kelly Loeffler. The announcement also comes less than a day after the president-elect’s son, Hunter Biden, revealed that the U.S. attorney’s office in Delaware has opened an investigation into his taxes. POLITICO and others have also reported that the scope of the probe has been more expansive than the younger Biden initially let on, potentially building a controversy that could hamper the early part of his father’s presidency. Biden’s transition did not specify where in the state the president-elect will visit during his trip or what shape his campaigning will take.The Black Lives Matter movement is buckling under the strain of its own success, with tensions rising between local chapters and national leaders over the group’s goals, direction — and money.From the beginning, Black Lives Matter was a grassroots effort, born in the streets with no central hierarchy. The idea: to keep power concentrated in the hands of its members, the people. That’s changing. After a summer of protests that made Black Lives Matter a household name, those atop the movement are making a series of moves to alter its power structure: organizing a political action committee, forming corporate partnerships, adding a third organizing arm and demanding an audience with President-elect Joe Biden.The moves have triggered mutiny in the ranks. Ten local chapters are severing ties with the Black Lives Matter Global Network, as the national leadership is known. They are furious that Patrisse Cullors, its remaining co-founder, assumed the role of executive director of the group and made these decisions without their input. That’s a move, that, to some, signaled a rebuke of its “leaderful” structure, which gave every member an equal say and kept anyone — including a founder — from overreaching. The operations of Black Lives Matter have always been opaque, with thousands of members and dozens of affiliates. Two of its three co-founders are no longer affiliated with the movement — even as they continue to represent Black Lives Matter on TV. Local Black Lives Matter activists say national leaders cut them off from funding and decision-making, leaving them broke and taking the movement in a direction with which they fundamentally disagree. And as the Black Lives Matter movement grows in influence, with millions in donations and celebrity endorsements, local organizers argue they’re the ones in the streets pushing for change — and they’re not getting their due. “There's been intentional erasure,” of local activists, said Sheri Dickerson, lead organizer with Black Lives Matter Oklahoma City. “People assume that that money is distributed to local chapters. That is not the case. People also assume that when actions are made, that national [leadership] has the support and agreement from this collective that what they're saying is representative of us. And that's certainly not the case.”The fallout follows an all-too familiar trajectory of other grassroots movements. And how its leaders respond to the call for accountability could have major implications for Black Lives Matter’s long-term influence — just as an administration potentially more sympathetic to its goals comes into power. With Cullors at its helm, Black Lives Matter this year positioned itself as a new leader in activism and politics at the forefront of the national reckoning on race. After forming the PAC, which helped fund its ad campaigns to mobilize Black voters, it formalized its third arm, Black Lives Matter Grassroots, to focus entirely on activism. But the spotlight on these changes is now exposing fractures in its operation and leadership structure as its ground troops go public with their complaints.“We became chapters of Black Lives Matter as radical Black organizers embracing a collective vision for Black people engaging in the protracted struggle for our lives against police terrorism,” 10 local chapters wrote in an open letter last week. “With a willingness to do hard work that would put us at risk, we expected that the central organizational entity … would support us chapters in our efforts to build communally.”The 10 chapters that signed the letter, the self-proclaimed #BLM10, laid out a half-dozen points of contention and long-standing grievances. Cullors is chief among their complaints, they said, arguing she made a power grab when she appointed herself executive director of the Black Lives Matter Global Network. They also said there’s a lack of transparency over money the movement has raised and how chapters can access it. Since Black Lives Matter formed in 2013, the chapters complained they’ve received scant financial support, despite repeated promises. Members have brought this up as early as 2016 and frustrated chapters planned to go public with their grievances months ago. But they were encouraged to wait and discuss the issues with Cullors privately. Those discussions were not productive, they say.“We didn't have an opportunity to agree to discuss. Nothing,” said Yahné Ndgo, a lead organizer with Black Lives Matter Philadelphia. “So then we ask questions, and we are told no answers.” Cullors declined comment. But representatives with the Black Lives Matter Global Network disputed the #BLM10’s complaints in an emailed statement, arguing most of the quarreling chapters are not formally affiliated with the global network. Instead, they say, the #BLM10 are using the Black Lives Matter name in a bid for credibility and money. And because of its funding structure, the network is limited by how much it can give local chapters.“Chapters that are a part of BLM Grassroots joined a unity pledge that laid out a set of organizing principles,” the statement reads, adding that most of the #BLM10 declined to sign on. “Regardless of their affiliation, we know these groups will continue to do good and necessary work in their communities.”Black Lives Matters co-founders Alicia Garza and Opal Tometi, who are no longer affiliated with the global network, and representatives from the Movement for Black Lives declined to comment for this story. Garza is now principal of the Black Futures Lab, a think tank that studies Black political power.Things came to a head this year when the confluence of several crises — the coronavirus, systemic racism and economic turmoil — highlighted both the gravity of the work that Black Lives Matter does and discrepancies in its execution. By the end of June, the Black Lives Matter Global Network had raised more than $13 million in donations and cemented its role as a political power and organizing force. But local organizers said they saw little or no money and were forced to crowdfund to stay afloat. Some organizers say they were barely able to afford gas or housing. “What [supporters] see is national folks talking about trying to get a meeting with Biden, while kids are literally outside of my door asking for food,” said April Goggans, lead organizer with Black Lives Matter D.C.If this dynamic sounds familiar, that’s because it is, said Omar Wasow, a political science professor at Princeton University, who studies protest movements. "It's almost a truism that movements will [fracture] over time," Wasow said. "It's exceedingly hard to hold movements together over the long haul."Activist organizations often split along factions as members disagree about how to advocate for change, Wasow said. Typically, they disagree about whether it’s more effective to work within the system or continue to agitate from the outside. And Black movement leaders from different groups have been at odds over reforms even earlier this year.Campaign Zero, a racial justice group focused on ending police violence, was widely criticized by a number of Black Lives Matter activists for advocating for solutions they felt didn't move the needle far enough on police reform. Its #8CantWait campaign, which called for an eight-step approach to ending police violence, took a lot of heat for calling for measures that were tried and failed, while relying on shoddy data to underline them. The Campaign Zero team, originally led by Johnetta Elzie, DeRay McKesson, Brittany Packnett Cunningham and Samuel Sinyangwe, later issued a public apology for rushing out the campaign so quickly. Cunningham later resigned from Campaign Zero. Which is to say, the splintering of Black Lives Matter is no anomaly. “I've seen it play out on gender lines. I've seen it played out on class lines. I've seen it play out on the national-versus-local lines,” said Justin Hansford, executive director of the Thurgood Marshall Civil Rights Center at Howard University, who helped lead protests in Ferguson in the wake of Mike Brown’s death. “And this seems to be the last of those dynamics playing out within the organization itself.”This is not the first time Black Lives Matter faced internal conflict. The Black Lives Matter Global Network and Movement for Black Lives are made up of thousands of organizers and dozens of associated organizing groups. While united in their main goals, getting consensus on key decisions has been tricky, particularly as the audience for their work has grown exponentially along with the appetite for solutions to the issues they are fighting. Keeping track of new developments within the Black Lives Matter movement can be confusing even for insiders. Its structure purportedly gave organizers equal say in decision-making. But ultimately, that sowed confusion about who was formally affiliated with the movement and therefore eligible for funds raised by the Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation. This frustrated a number of longtime Black Lives Matter members. It’s what prompted leaders from stronghold chapters like Washington, Chicago and Philadelphia to sign the letter. They say they didn’t receive guidance or support from the movement they helped build, despite voicing their concerns as early as 2016. “From the first time somebody said the word Black Lives Matter, there was confusion because there was always this idea that the decision of who gets credit was a political one,” Hansford said. “All throughout the movement, there's always been a question of who gets credit and following that, who gets the reward.”In July, affiliate chapters were invited to apply for funding the Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation received in the form of unrestricted, multiyear grants up to $500,000. But the #BLM10 say it wasn’t clear which chapters were “legitimate” affiliates. As a result, few qualified for help. That stoked tensions within the ranks, particularly as public opinion toward Black Lives Matter began to slip. They also disagreed with the new focus on national politics over local fights for police reform. There was “absolutely no way” they would have agreed with those decisions if local chapters were consulted, they said.“That being a central message and a central focus for the entire nation? Absolutely not something that we would have been aligned with,” Ndgo said, referencing the “protest to the polls” messaging that Cullors was amplifying ahead of November.Tensions also flared among some organizers when Cullors — along with Garza and Tometi, made the rounds on cable TV. “Chapters who we know, who we've been working with, who … do this work, have not been acknowledged or supported, yet you will find them talked about either on stage or in interviews on TV,” Goggans said. “They might as well just be pictures on a fundraising brochure — we all might as well be.” There was also a disconnect around the scope and focus of Black Lives Matter’s organizing. While chapters focused on police accountability and funding — a largely local debate that has gained national attention — they were unaware that leaders of the global network had shifted their efforts. “I'm not begging Biden, or Harris, for any type of sit-down or meeting,” said Chanelle Helm, an organizer with Black Lives Matter Louisville. “I'm trying to get my mayor out of his seat, because he keeps doing the same shit he’s doing.”Three other chapters in the Black Lives Matter’s Southern region are unaffiliated with the #BLM10 but support their complaints. In a letter shared with POLITICO, they said the restructuring of the Black Lives Matter organization reflects “a growing gap” between the chapters and national leadership. The disaffected chapters are no longer affiliated with the Black Lives Matter Global Network, they said, but they will continue the work they’ve been doing for years. And, they said, they will continue to work under the Black Lives Matter banner.“This is our name, we've worked for it. And I feel that chapters have really honored that name and made it strong,” said Amika Tendaji, a lead organizer with Black Lives Matter Chicago.Dickerson, of Black Lives Matter Oklahoma City, cited the famous scene from “What’s Love Got to Do With It,” when Tina Turner tells Ike Turner the only thing she wants from him in their divorce is her name. “People recognize our power within our communities,” she said. “We're not a brand. We are a revolution.”The nomination of retired Gen. Lloyd Austin to be the next defense secretary has raised concerns over his ties to the defense industry, most notably his membership on the board of Raytheon Technologies.But less well-known is his membership on the board of Nucor, a steel company that's a subcontractor to at least two major defense contractors. The connection could further complicate his confirmation as lawmakers have made clear their wariness of installing Pentagon chiefs with defense industry ties.Since 2017, Austin has been a member of the board at Nucor, the largest steel and steel products producer in the U.S. The North Carolina-based company makes more than 27 million tons of steel each year from 300 facilities across the U.S. It reported more than $22 billion in revenue in 2019.The company is a second-tier supplier to Oshkosh Defense, which is building nearly 50,000 joint light tactical vehicles for the Army to replace the Humvee, a company spokesperson confirmed. Army officials in February said they hope to recompete the contract in 2022 to drive down cost.Huntington Ingalls Industries, one of the nation’s top shipyards, also counts Nucor among its suppliers, an HII spokesperson said. The company, which has shipyards in Virginia and Mississippi, builds several ships for the Navy and Coast Guard, including Gerald R. Ford-class aircraft carriers and Columbia-class ballistic missile submarines.Nucor likely also sells steel to other defense companies. Steel is required for many military vehicles and ships, and defense companies are required to buy a certain percentage domestically. Because of that “it would be fair to assume that Nucor, as a major domestic steel producer, feeds into the [defense industrial base] supply chain,” an industry official told POLITICO, speaking on background to not reveal supplier information about their own company.The company did not respond to questions, including what percentage of its annual sales are to aerospace and defense companies.Critics say this is yet another knock on a nomination that has already faced opposition due to industry ties and the need to seek a waiver. Austin retired in 2017, short of the seven-year "cooling off" period required by law.“This is just emblematic of how conflict-riddled this nomination is,” said Mandy Smithberger, the director of the Project on Government Oversight’s Center for Defense Information. “It’s yet another area of the department’s portfolio where competitors can raise questions about the fairness of the department’s decisions.”And in Smithberger’s view, the fact that Nucor is a defense subcontractor instead of a prime that works directly with the department does not reduce the risk of conflict of interest. “The bottom line is these decisions are going to impact their finances and he’s certainly going to appear to have a bias for a company that he knows better,” she said.Smithberger said it is crucial for Austin to recuse himself for the duration of his service at the Pentagon from all matters involving Raytheon, Huntington Ingalls and Oshkosh, which spans a broad swath of the department’s portfolio.Benjamin Friedman, the policy director at Defense Priorities, agreed Austin's service on Nucor's board would "potentially ... raise issues," but added that just recusing himself from direct contract awards does not eliminate the perception or reality of bias."You're making a whole bunch of decisions that have impacts on contractors and on subcontractors," he said. For example, Austin could make a broad decision to boost the size of the Navy's fleet that would undoubtedly benefit Huntington Ingalls while still recusing himself from specific contract awards involving that company.A Biden transition spokesperson confirmed that Austin will recuse himself as required by ethics laws. "Joe Biden has pledged the most ethically rigorous administration in American history, and every cabinet member will abide by all disclosure requirements and strict ethics rules," the spokesperson said.In addition to sitting on Nucor's board, Austin also serves on the board of Raytheon Technologies, one of the Pentagon's largest contractors. In 2016, he joined the board of United Technologies Corporation, which included a defense segment as well as business interests in the elevator and air conditioning industries. When United Technologies merged with Raytheon in April, Austin formally joined the board of the newly formed Raytheon Technologies, whose subsidiaries make defense products ranging from F-35 jet engines to ballistic missile interceptors.Austin was also a partner at Pine Island Capital, an investment firm that recently bought a series of small military contractors, the New York Times reported. When he joined the board of the firm in July, Pine Island touted that he was using experience and judgment gained during his military career to work with its companies, including InVeris Training Solutions, which develops virtual and live-fire training systems for the military, and Precinmac Precision Machining, which make components for the defense industry, as well as the semiconductor and aerospace communities.The former general also runs his own private consulting firm, Austin Strategy Group, LLC, based in Great Falls, Va. A website for the group now returns an error message, but a cached version of the page from Dec. 1 lists areas of expertise as U.S. foreign policy, national security and leadership. An inquiry sent to the group through a cached contact page was not answered.Two other candidates to be Biden's defense secretary — Michèle Flournoy, a former deputy assistant secretary for strategy at the Pentagon, and former Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson — also came under scrutiny for their ties to the defense industry as Biden weighed his options. Flournoy faced criticism for co-founding WestExec Advisors, a consulting firm with a secretive client list that was co-founded by Antony Blinken, Biden’s pick for secretary of state. Flournoy is also an adviser to Pine Island Capital Partners, the Times reported, and served on the board of contractor Booz Allen Hamilton.Johnson, who has since said he will not serve in the administration, has been director of the Lockheed Martin board of directors since January 2018.Naming a defense secretary with industry experience continues a pattern set by the Trump administration with the nomination of former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who served on the General Dynamics board of directors after a four-decade career in the Marine Corps. His deputy, Pat Shanahan, spent more than three decades at Boeing before taking over as the Pentagon's second-in-command. While he was never confirmed as secretary, he spent more than six months as the acting defense secretary after Mattis' departure.Most recently, former Defense Secretary Mark Esper, who was fired last month, was a top lobbyist for Raytheon. He recused himself from all contract decisions involving his former employers for the beginning of his time in government, but refused to extend his recusal when pressed by Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.).It's unclear what affect these issues will have on Austin's confirmation. While most of the opposition to his nomination so far has centered on the fact that he will need a waiver, some progressive lawmakers asked Biden to pick a defense secretary with no ties to the defense industry before Austin's selection was announced."Despite President Trump’s boast that he would 'drain the swamp' and hire only 'the best people,' he has continuously failed to do so," Reps. Mark Pocan (D-Wisc.) and Barbara Lee (D-Calif.) wrote in the Nov. 10 letter. "We strongly encourage you to reject the mistaken nominations of the Trump era; and, again, commit to appointing secretaries of defense with no previous ties to defense contractors."Analysts outside of the government have also said abiding by ethics laws should be a bare minimum, advocating instead for appointing a defense secretary who has never worked at a defense contractor."In an ideal world, no political appointees would have worked for or served on the board of a for-profit entity that received money from the agency they would work in," Kate Kizer, the policy director at Win Without War, wrote in an op-ed.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s staff told other congressional leaders on Wednesday that the bipartisan coronavirus negotiators will be unlikely to satisfy Senate Republicans, according to a senior Democrat familiar with the conversations.McConnell’s staff informed House and Senate leadership staffers that the group’s attempts to marry $160 billion in state and local aid and a temporary liability shield probably won't fly with most of the GOP, the Democrat said. Those two issues have become the primary focus for a bipartisan group of lawmakers that is trying to hammer out a $908 billion compromise.But efforts to cut a deal on a liability shield have proved elusive as Democrats resist GOP offers, while many Republicans are rejecting the idea of sending money to the states that Democrats deem a must-have. And the GOP leadership's dour opinion of the talks amounts to another blow for the bipartisan group. McConnell has publicly suggested dropping local aid and the liability shield from negotiations to focus on health care and other less controversial issues, but Democrats want the group of centrists to continue negotiating to see if they can produce a result. Congress is about to fund the government through Dec. 18, buying them another week of time to talk about the coronavirus aid package. Both McConnell and Speaker Nancy Pelosi want to pair coronavirus relief with the annual spending bill.McConnell’s office declined to comment.Officials from four presidential swing states forcefully criticized an effort by Texas and President Donald Trump to enlist the Supreme Court to overturn Joe Biden’s victory in the presidential election, with Pennsylvania calling the last-ditch legal effort “seditious” and built on an “absurd” foundation.“The Court should not abide this seditious abuse of the judicial process, and should send a clear and unmistakable signal that such abuse must never be replicated,” Pennsylvania said in a 43-page brief signed by Attorney General Josh Shapiro and his deputies.“In support of such a request, Texas brings to the Court only discredited allegations and conspiracy theories that have no basis in fact,” the attorneys wrote. “Accepting Texas’s view would do violence to the Constitution and the Framers’ vision.”The briefs from Pennsylvania, Georgia, Michigan and Wisconsin — states targeted in Texas’ lawsuit, brought by Attorney General Ken Paxton, which Trump is attempting to join — directed their fury largely at Paxton. And they pleaded with the justices to reject the suit out of hand, warning that anything else would give states unprecedented power to sue each other to enforce their will, leading to waves of partisan retribution that shake the foundations of federalism.“I mean, I can't imagine how he has the standing to do that anyway,” Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel, a Democrat, said in an interview on Wednesday. “Nobody in Michigan elected AG Paxton to intervene in our electoral systems or processes here. And it's just really bewildering to me, and exhausting.”Michigan’s filing notes that several courts, both state and federal, had rejected similar claims to those Paxton had made: “The base of Texas’s claims rests on an assertion that Michigan has violated its own election laws. Not true. That claim has been rejected in the federal and state courts in Michigan, and just yesterday the Michigan Supreme Court rejected a last-ditch effort to request an audit.”Texas’ lawsuit makes a statistical argument against Biden’s victory, noting that he trailed in the early count of votes, but omitting the fact that many key states were legally prohibited from beginning to count mail-in ballots — which tilted heavily in favor of Democrats, thanks in part to a months-long effort by Trump to discredit them — until Election Day. It's a fact that was well known ahead of the election, in which election administrators of both parties pleaded with the public and the media to have patience and not draw conclusions from early returns.“Texas first alleges that ‘[t]he probability of former Vice President Biden winning the popular vote in the four Defendant States independently given President Trump’s early lead in those States as of 3 a.m. on November 4, 2020, is less than one in a quadrillion,’” the brief from Pennsylvania read, citing Texas’ so-called expert who assumed that those counted before and after early in the morning were the same pool of voters. “But the votes counted later were indisputably not ‘randomly drawn’ from the same population of votes, as those counted earlier were predominantly in-person votes while those counted later were predominantly mail-in votes,” the Pennsylvania filing continued, noting that Texas’ own filing highlighted the fact that Democratic voters were more likely to vote by mail.Georgia, the only one of the four targeted states run by Republicans, issued a similarly weighty rejection of Paxton’s suit.“The novel and far-reaching claims that Texas asserts, and the breathtaking remedies it seeks, are impossible to ground in legal principles and unmanageable,” the Georgia filing read. “This Court has never allowed one state to co-opt the legislative authority of another state, and there are no limiting or manageable principles to cabin that kind of overreach.”Texas’ lawsuit drew skepticism even among Republicans on Capitol Hill, who have broadly been supportive of the president’s efforts to undermine faith in the democratic system. Some Texas GOP lawmakers, including Sen. John Cornyn, raised questions about the merits. Rep. Chip Roy called it “a dangerous violation of federalism,” and House GOP leader Kevin McCarthy twice dodged questions about whether he backed the legal effort. However, a group of 106 House Republicans signed a friend of the court briefing, arguing the defendant states acted illegally and that their electors should be prevented from voting.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer on Thursday defended the Trump administration's crippling of the World Trade Organization's appellate body, arguing it's one-year absence has made no real difference to world trade."No one's really missed it," LIghthizer said during a taped interview that aired at the Milken Institute's Asia Summit. "No one's missed it at all. It's like there this mythology out there" that it is needed.Where things stand: The appellate body ceased functioning a year ago as a result of the United States blocking the appointment of new judges to the seven-person panel. It takes three judges to hear an appeal, and the term of the last remaining appellate body member, Chinese national Hang Zhao, ended on Nov. 30.The EU, China and some other WTO members have set up an alternative appellate court to hear cases. But six months after it was established, it has yet to hear an appeal.The alternative structure is "like an appellate body after you have a couple of cocktails," Lighthizer said dismissively.Still, not everyone would agree with Lighthizer's assertion that the appellate body is not missed, since it's absence effectively prevents the final resolution of some disputes.Why the U.S. acted: The Trump administration blocked the appointment of appellate body judges in response to decisions that it believed imposed obligations on the U.S. that it never agreed to accept as part of the WTO agreement, particularly in the area of anti-dumping and countervailing duty measures against unfairly-priced imports.That's a criticism shared by both Republicans and Democrats in Congress. It's now up to the incoming Biden administration to decide how to approach the issue.No regrets: Lighthizer made clear he would be happy to see the appellate body gone forever. He said he asked his aides to show him proof that it had a positive impact on trade and they couldn't do it."There's no correlation between the appellate body and increase in trade. There just isn't. It's ridiculous," he said.In filling out his administration, Joe Biden has put not just one but two high-profile, high-powered individuals at the top of his State Department. For secretary of State, he has selected longtime aide and confidant Antony Blinken. He has also created a new Cabinet-level position, climate czar, and given the job to John Kerry, a former senator, presidential candidate and secretary of State (in which position Kerry was Blinken’s boss). The climate czar job, with offices in the State Department and the White House, will apparently have a huge mandate, and Biden advisers are reportedly already concerned about how these two positions will work together—and whether the arrangement could bring confusion or conflict to the new administration.The parallels between the Blinken-Kerry setup and a previous relationship at the top of U.S. foreign policy are almost eerie. In 1955, President Dwight Eisenhower appointed former Minnesota governor and presidential candidate Harold Stassen to the newly created position of special assistant to the president for disarmament. Stassen was to be the administration’s point person on disarmament issues, with Cabinet rank. But this appointment did not sit well with Eisenhower’s territorial secretary of State, John Foster Dulles, who thought disarmament should be his purview.Not only did the Cabinet overlap result in an acrimonious few years, it also brought about some embarrassing setbacks for U.S. disarmament policy. If the Biden administration wants to avoid squabbling, confusion and mistakes, and instead achieve comity and clarity, it should examine what went wrong the last time. Maybe it can learn some lessons about how to make the Kerry-Blinken relationship go right.The very idea of Eisenhower’s circumventing an established Cabinet official seemed off from the start. Eisenhower was a staunch believer in Cabinet government and felt that policy direction should come from the Cabinet heads, and not the White House staff. Accordingly, he gave his department heads a lot of leeway to run things as they saw fit and would get annoyed if they came to him too often with what he considered minor problems. Ike also usually set things up in a way to minimize conflict, typically appointing like-minded Cabinet members.But Eisenhower upset his delicate balance on March 19, 1955, when, concerned that Secretary of State John Foster Dulles was moving too slowly on disarmament negotiations with the Soviets, he appointed Stassen to be disarmament chief. The statement detailing Stassen’s appointment indicated that the position would be of Cabinet rank and that it would have “the responsibility for developing, on behalf of the President and the State Department, the broad studies, investigations and conclusions which, when concurred in by the National Security Council and approved by the president, will become basic policy toward the question of disarmament.”The New York Times editorial board dubbed Stassen’s position the “Secretary of Peace,” which annoyed the fussy and officious Dulles. Dulles grumbled about the sobriquet: “If he is the secretary of peace, what am I—secretary for war?” Beyond hurting Dulles’ feelings, the unclear nature of Stassen’s role led to tension and confusion. Was he a White House aide or a State Department official? His title of special assistant to the president was a White House title, and he also had an office at the White House. But he had Cabinet rank, unusual for a White House aide, and was responsible for formulating positions for both the White House and the State Department. The appointment also interfered with the chain of command. While equivalent to Dulles in rank, Stassen was simultaneously under Dulles when it came to handling negotiations with foreign governments. As the historian David Tal wrote, the fuzzy arrangement “allowed Stassen to defy the clear hierarchy” when it suited him.Stassen, to his credit, was deferential in the beginning. According to Eisenhower speechwriter Emmet Hughes, Stassen would be sure to issue reassuring statements like, “Whatever you think, Foster” and “Under your leadership, Foster.” But clashes were inevitable. Stassen was 20 years Dulles’ junior, and had nowhere near the foreign policy credentials of the older man. Yet Stassen had little doubt about his own abilities. As Hughes observed, “Many of [Stassen’s] cabinet colleagues were impressed, and not appreciatively, by the exceedingly high importance that Stassen seemed to attach to his words and his own ambitions.” Stassen may also have overestimated his mandate, believing that that Ike was frustrated with Dulles’ slow pace and failure to get results. Ike may have wanted things to move faster, but he also wanted negotiated successes and internal comity—and Stassen did not succeed on those fronts.Dulles brought his own flaws to the relationship. According to Stassen, “My best summary of Dulles is that he always knew he was absolutely right. Further, he knew that anyone who disagreed with him was, of logical necessity, always wrong. And finally, he could not understand how anyone could dare question the fact that he was always right.” (And it wasn’t just Stassen who had a problem with the priggish Dulles. As Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas once said, “I’m not sure I want to go to heaven. I’m afraid I might meet John Foster Dulles there.” Winston Churchill also once famously mocked Dulles with the phrase “Dull, Duller, Dulles.”)Most seriously, the two men had a fundamental difference of opinion on arms control policy. Stassen favored a more ambitious approach, supporting a full-on nuclear freeze. Dulles was more cautious, wanting slower movement overall, with trust-building steps like mutual inspections.As it was, Eisenhower went with a third approach, called Open Skies—a proposal that didn’t include a disarmament agreement but would allow the Americans and the Soviets surveillance flights over each other’s territory, as a way to reassure each side that neither side was planning an attack. The Soviets rejected it, forestalling the possibility of a diplomatic success, but it effectively became U.S. policy. Still, Stassen and Dulles also disagreed over how to implement Open Skies, leading to continual and even personal strife between them.In one comical incident in 1955, Dulles had his security team take away Stassen’s assigned car at a foreign policy gathering. In a not-so-subtle example of Washington territoriality, he then offered Stassen a ride in what was supposed to be Stassen’s own car.In the end, Stassen’s aggressiveness was his undoing. During the 1958 arms discussions in London, Stassen shared his own position on arms control with Soviet diplomat T. K. Zorin, implying it was the American position. This indiscretion angered Dulles, but also Eisenhower and America’s British allies. In response, Dulles called Stassen back to Washington, demoted him with Eisenhower’s blessing and gave him a career State Department official as his minder. Stassen’s staff was moved out of the White House to a different location.Stassen did not last long after that, handing in his resignation to Eisenhower, not Dulles, on February 18, 1958. Ike’s statement on Stassen’s departure noted the president’s deep “regret that you are leaving the Federal government, effective today, and that our five-year association together in government service is to terminate.” It did not mention other possible regrets, namely that going against his own instincts on how to run his government had led to a failed relationship between Stassen and Dulles, a failure to get an arms agreement with the Soviets and an embarrassing breach with the British.In the end, their fighting had stopped both Dulles and Stassen from making significant progress. Stassen was more creative than Dulles, and probably could have achieved more in the role had he not alienated the older stateman. For Dulles’ part, if he had gotten past Stassen’s aggressiveness, perhaps he could have benefited from Stassen’s energy and ingenuity in his negotiating efforts.So what do those rocky years mean for Joe Biden’s administration?Already, the president-elect has set himself up for a similar situation: Kerry will have Cabinet rank, and a position similar to the one Stassen had, although for climate rather than disarmament policy. In addition, Kerry is expected to have perches both at State Department and the White House, where he will be part of the National Security Council, raising the risk of his inserting himself into issues outside of his purview. Also, what’s the chain of command, and how will Blinken and Kerry’s roles overlap? In climate negotiations with foreign governments that have enormous implications, will Kerry have carte blanche, or will Blinken and Biden’s economic advisers have an opportunity to veto Kerry’s proposed concessions?A lot will depend on the personalities and approaches of the two principals. Kerry is said to have a “maniacal” interest in negotiated wins. He is also better known than Blinken, and has known Biden longer, dating back to his election to the Senate in 1984. Unlike Stassen, Kerry is the older man, and has been a secretary of State to boot, which could further complicate matters. Kerry, too, has little shortage of ego. A 2010 Slate “Vanity Index” marked him as having the biggest ego in the Senate, which is indeed saying something.On the other side of the ledger is Blinken. Here, Dulles’ difficult nature stands in stark contrast to Blinken, who by nearly all accounts is both a nice guy and quite down to earth. As the Atlantic Council’s Damon Wilson said of Blinken, “He’s a strategist, but he is so decent. He’s such a nice guy.” Still, sometimes being the nice guy can also lead to problems, as it can enable more aggressive actors to bypass you or take advantage.Just as Eisenhower was to blame for the failure of Stassen-Dulles, so too is Biden ultimately responsible for the success or failure of the Kerry-Blinken relationship. Biden will have to lay out clear guidelines for what he wants Kerry to do, and how he wants Kerry to do it. If there are disagreements between the two men, Biden, or his chief of staff, Ron Klain, will have to sort them out. If the two men look to Biden or Klain too frequently to resolve disputes, that will be a strong signal that things are not working, and that changes need to take place.Biden must also find a way to maximize the assets and minimize the liabilities of the two men under him. Eisenhower failed to integrate Stassen’s creativity with Dulles’ authority. To succeed, Biden must take advantage of Kerry’s stature and Blinken’s closeness to him without confusing our negotiating partners or alienating either of his top two foreign policy people.Another complicating issue is the press: The 24-7 media cycle is much more intrusive than it was in the 1950s, and the press will be on the lookout for any evidence of rivalry between Kerry and Blinken. Indeed, POLITICO has already reported about concerns in Biden world regarding the potential for confusion stemming from the two roles. Also, Biden and his communications team will have to establish clear guidelines about who communicates to the press about not just climate issues, but foreign policy writ large. If Kerry and his team begin weighing in about national security issues outside the climate purview, that should serve as a signal to Biden that there is something amiss in the relationship. Similarly, if backbiting on background quotes from the two camps begins to show up on the press, it’s another sign to Biden that things are going sour.There are reasons to be hopeful this arrangement could work: Unlike Dulles and Stassen, Blinken and Kerry are starting out in an administration at the beginning. This may mean both men are on the same page, or at least that the nascent administration is putting some thought into how the interplay of the two positions should work. Furthermore, there is not a question, as in Stassen-Dulles, of Biden making the Kerry pick out of frustration with Blinken, since the administration has not even started yet. Another positive omen is that both men are close to Biden. Biden and Kerry have their long Senate overlap, and Blinken has long served as a Biden aide and is even seen as an “alter ego” to the president-elect.But even this strong foundation might not be enough. The inherent tension between a secretary of State and a lead negotiator with Cabinet rank might be too much for any administration to bear. If things do need to change, look for Kerry to go before Blinken. After all, special envoy for climate is a brand-new position, but we have had a secretary of State since Thomas Jefferson first took the job in 1790.Donald Trump lost the presidency, but his opponents so far have not achieved the victory they want most: A fatal puncturing of the Trump movement, a repudiation so complete that it severs his astonishing grip on supporters and leaves him with no choice but to slink offstage and into the blurry past.For now, Trump dominates conversations about both present and future. His outlandish claims that he won the election except for comprehensive fraud have helped raise more than $200 million since Election Day. Many of his partisans share his dream of recapturing the presidency in 2024. For those who despise him, to paraphrase a famous Democratic speech, it seems clear the work goes on, the cause endures, the fear still lives, and the nightmare shall never die.Except it will die — most likely with more speed and force than looks possible today. There are three primary reasons to be deeply skeptical that Trump’s moment of dominating his party and public consciousness will continue long after Jan. 20.Most important are the abundant precedents suggesting Trump does not have another important act in national politics. The perception that Trump will remain relevant hinges on the possibility that he is a unique historical figure. Trump, however, is singular in one sense only: No politician of his stripe has ever achieved the presidency. In multiple other ways, he is a familiar American type, anticipated by such diverse figures as Joseph McCarthy, George Wallace, and Ross Perot.Like Trump, they all possessed flamboyant, self-dramatizing personas. They tapped into genuine popular grievance toward elites, and had ascendant moments in which they caused the system to quake and intimidated conventional politicians of both parties. In every case, their movements decayed rapidly. Cults of personality in American politics are quite common. But they never live long, and Trump has offered no reason to suppose he will be an exception.That’s the second reason Trump is not well-positioned to retain his hold on public attention: He has largely abandoned any pretense that he thinks about anything other than his personal resentments, or that he is trying to harness his movement to big ideas that will improve the lives of citizens. When he vaulted into presidential politics five years ago, Trump’s still-potent gifts — for channeling anger, for mockery, for conspiracy theory — were once channeled to an agenda that fellow Republicans were largely neglecting, over trade, immigration, globalization, and perceptions of national decline. These days, no one can follow Trump’s Twitter feed and believe that he cares more about the public’s problems than his own, and that is not a recipe for sustaining political power.Here is the third reason to be bearish on Trump’s future: Politics never stands still, but Trump largely does. As he leaves the White House, Trump should be haunted by a stark reality — if he had any capacity for self-calibration, he wouldn’t be leaving the White House at all. He’s got one set of political tools. When things are going well, his instinct is to double down on those. When things are going poorly, his instinct is to double down on those. In political terms, the pandemic demanded modulation of Trump’s blame-casting brand of politics — but also would have lavishly rewarded him if he had done so.Trump didn’t change because he didn’t perceive the need and couldn’t conceive of how to do so. That’s a combination of flawed judgment and impoverished imagination that hardly supports optimism about his ability to retain power in the new circumstances that await him once gone from the White House.Time moves on. Ambitious Republicans who wish to regain control of the party and become president themselves do not have to confront and defeat Trump, as his 2016 rivals tried and failed to do. They merely have to transcend him, using issues to create leadership personas that will soon enough make the 74-year-old Trump look irrelevant, an artifact of an era that has passed. What about his 88-million Twitter followers, and the possibility that in his ex-presidency he will start his own news network? It is true that Trump will not lack for avenues to get his message out. But what will that message be, beyond repeating claims of a stolen election that his own attorney general has said are not true. Conspiracy theories, of course, can have power, even when the evidence is nil — that’s just proof of how deep and wide the conspiracy must go. But this isn’t a promising basis to return Trump to the White House or make him kingmaker.This brings the mind back to the figure who is the most vivid antecedent of Trump: Joe McCarthy.A comparison to McCarthy is usually invoked as an insult. Certainly I do not intend it as a compliment. But in this case let’s keep the comparison entirely clinical. Like McCarthy, Trump used accusation and grave warnings of national betrayal and decline to tap into currents of nativism and suspicion of elites that stretched back to the country’s early days. Like McCarthy, Trump is regarded by people who know him well as vastly more interested in publicity for himself than he is about the issues on which he inveighs. And just like McCarthy, Trump seemed to become intoxicated by publicity and power, becoming louder and more unleashed from fact the more he was challenged and the more his moment seemed to be slipping away.In the Washington Post the other day, Yale historian Beverly Gage noted that McCarthyism didn’t die after Joe McCarthy was censured by his fellow senators in 1954. That’s true. But McCarthy as a figure who could instill fear or command influence did recede rapidly.In an engaging memoir, “Without Precedent,” one of the secondary participants of the McCarthy drama shared an arresting recollection. John G. Adams was a fellow attorney with Joseph Welch (famous for his challenge to McCarthy, “Have you no sense of decency, sir, at long last?”) in the Army-McCarthy hearings that were the Wisconsin senator’s undoing. After his censure, McCarthy on separate occasions kept calling Adams for the two to get together, to somehow demonstrate no hard feelings, in what McCarthy apparently believed would be part of his public rehabilitation. He proposed a dinner with spouses. “She despises you,” Adams replied. “She wouldn’t set foot in your door.” McCarthy giggled. “Heh, heh, you know the girls,” the disgraced senator said. “They take these things seriously.”This reminded me of something a reporter who has covered Trump since his New York years once told me: “It’s not that his bark is worse than his bite. He doesn’t really want to bite at all. He wants to be petted.”In the case of Adams and McCarthy, they did finally have their meeting, in which the senator spun fantasies of comeback. His adversary told him: “It’s no good, Joe. It’s over and finished; that’s all.”That turned out to be true for McCarthy, who died as a pathetic alcoholic at age 48 in 1957. It was basically true for George Wallace, who won 13.5 percent of the vote as a third-party candidate of racial and class backlash in 1968. He was shot in an attempted assassination when he tried again in 1972, by which it was already pretty clear that his hour of consequence had past. Perot, a more benign representation of the American fascination with supposed strong men who burst on the scene in noisy opposition to conventional politics, won nearly 20 percent of the vote as a Reform Party candidate in 1992. That dwindled to 8 percent when he tried again in 1996, and Perot continued to slip from public view.It is not just in American history but American imagination that self-invented, outsized outsiders don’t have staying power. Willie Stark, modeled after Huey Long, was shot at the end of “All the King’s Men.” F. Scott Fitzgerald delivered the same fate to Jay Gatsby. Not long after the Wizard of Oz is exposed as an amiable fraud (“Pay no attention to that man behind the curtain!”), Dorothy awakens to discover it was all just a dream.The Trump years were not just a hallucination. But chances are they will soon enough come to feel like they were — which won’t leave much opportunity to return to real power.The Trump administration is moving to broadly raise the standards for individuals to receive asylum status in the U.S., a step that critics are calling the biggest crackdown of this presidency on those seeking a haven in this country.A new, 419-page rule by the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Justice would create additional bars to asylum eligibility and limit the circumstances in which individuals can qualify for protection, changes that the administration says "are likely to result in fewer asylum grants annually.""This is the most sweeping attack on asylum that we have seen under the Trump administration," said Aaron Reichlin-Melnick of the American Immigration Council, an immigration advocacy group. "Under this rule, asylum would be taken out of reach for a large percentage of people who in the past would have been able to qualify."Immigration judges would be able to more easily claim that applications are "frivolous" under the new rules, a determination that bars individuals from any form of immigration relief, as well as deny asylum requests without a hearing if they believe they lack certain evidence.Currently, individuals who claim they have a "credible fear of persecution or torture" if they return to their home country are eligible for asylum status. Asylum grants individuals deportation protections and work authorization. After one year, asylees are eligible to apply for permanent lawful status.But the Trump administration's new rules would raise the standard for "persecution" that an asylum-seeker must prove they will suffer if returned to their home country to "a severe level of harm."The administration rule clarifies that "persecution" does not include: "every instance of harm" caused by criminal or military unrest in a country; any treatment that the U.S. considers "unfair, offensive, unjust, or even unlawful or unconstitutional;" harassment; or "threats with no actions taken to carry out the threats."Individuals who claim that they will face persecution based on gender or gang violence, among other grounds, would also generally not qualify for asylum under the new rules.The regulatory changes outline several factors that immigration officials must consider in the asylum process that would disqualify individuals from protection. These include whether migrants crossed into the U.S. illegally, used fraudulent documents, failed to pay their taxes, or passed through other countries without seeking protective status there first.The administration has argued that many people claim that they fear persecution in their home country when turned away at the border, so they can enter the U.S. even if ultimately they won’t be granted asylum.The changes "will enable the Departments to more effectively separate baseless claims from meritorious ones" and "better ensure groundless claims do not delay or divert resources from deserving claims," DHS said.What's next: The rule will take effect 30 days after it is published in the Federal Register on Friday.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Robert Redfield instructed staff to delete an email from a Trump political appointee seeking control over the agency’s scientific reports on the pandemic, a senior CDC official told congressional investigators this week.Redfield’s apparent instruction was revealed in a Monday closed-door interview with the House subcommittee probing the White House's coronavirus response, which includes the Trump administration’s interference at the federal public health agency. It came following an Aug. 8 email sent by Paul Alexander, who was then the scientific adviser to Health and Human Services spokesperson Michael Caputo, aiming to water down the CDC’s famed Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports to align with President Donald Trump’s efforts to downplay the virus."I was instructed to delete the email," MMWR editor Charlotte Kent told investigators. Kent, who was on vacation when Alexander sent the email, said that she was informed of the request by a colleague who filled in for her, and that she understood the request to be from Redfield. Kent said that she never saw the email herself. "I went to look for it after I had been told to delete it, and it was already gone," she told investigators on Monday.Rep. Jim Clyburn, who chairs the House Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis, on Thursday raised concern the episode may be among "deliberate efforts by the Trump Administration to conceal and destroy evidence" of political meddling in the pandemic response. In a letter to Redfield and HHS Secretary Alex Azar, he said that instructing staff to delete documents is unethical and possibly a violation of federal record-keeping requirements, according to a copy shared with POLITICO."Federal employees have affirmative obligations to preserve documents, and destruction of federal records is potentially illegal," Clyburn warned in the letter. "Federal law also provides for up to three years of imprisonment for willful destruction of federal records."Redfield in a Thursday afternoon statement didn't deny telling staff to delete the email, though he said he instructed them to "ignore Dr. Alexander's comments.""As I testified before Congress, I am fully committed to maintaining the independence of the MMWR, and I stand by that statement," Redfield said.POLITICO first reported on Sept. 11 that Alexander had demanded — and received — the right to review the CDC's reports, with the approval of top HHS officials. The agency’s MMWR reports, authored by career scientists, are typically free of political interference, and revelations that Trump officials had sought to alter their findings alarmed public health experts who depend on them. Democrats later announced a probe into the Trump administration’s interactions with the federal science agencies.An HHS spokesperson, while ignoring questions about whether Redfield had asked staff to delete the email, said the House subcommittee had wrongly characterized Kent's remarks — a complaint echoed by the panel's top Republican."We urge the Subcommittee to release the transcript in full which will show that during her testimony Dr. Kent repeatedly said there was no political interference in the MMWR process," the HHS spokesperson said.Kent did not respond to a request for comment.She also told investigators that the CDC, in an earlier incident, delayed the publication of a July report on coronavirus spread at a Georgia summer camp following a "requested delay by Dr. Redfield and HHS." The report was held for two days and instead released about 15 minutes after Redfield concluded testimony to Clyburn's panel.Clyburn said the subcommittee is still waiting for documents that it requested on Sept. 14. In his letter, he also threatened to subpoena HHS and CDC if they didn’t comply with his subcommittee’s ongoing probe.Following Kent's interview with investigators on Monday, HHS canceled four interviews that had been scheduled with top CDC staff, including CDC Principal Deputy Director Anne Schuchat, Acting Chief of Staff Nina Witkofsky, Acting Deputy Chief of Staff Trey Moeller and communications official Kate Galatas. According to the oversight committee, HHS complained that the panel overstepped the bounds of its investigation during Kent’s interview.The HHS spokesperson, who requested anonymity, said the subcommittee was "not operating in good faith." House Minority Whip Steve Scalise of Lousiana, the top Republican on the coronavirus subcommittee, said the Democrats' investigation has turned up "zero evidence of actual interference in CDC scientific reports."Alexander, who has since left HHS, spent months pushing career scientific officials to align their messages with Trump's downplaying of the virus. In September, he tried to prevent infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci from speaking about the risks the coronavirus posed to children. In a Sept. 11 email previously obtained by POLITICO, Alexander also urged CDC officials to alter a report on the virus' risks to young Americans, complicating the agency's own efforts to review that report.In Alexander's Aug. 8 email, which was previously obtained by POLITICO, he insisted on an "immediate stop on all CDC MMWR reports due to the incompleteness of reporting.""Nothing to go out unless I read and agree with the findings how the CDC wrote it and I tweak it to ensure it is fair and balanced and 'complete,'" Alexander added, in a breach of the scientific firewall that CDC has maintained for decades.In the lengthy email, which switches between red and black font and yellow and blue highlighted text, Alexander laid out demands for retroactive changes to the CDC's reports and insisted that the agency's career scientists were trying to subvert Trump's reelection bid.HHS announced Sept. 16 that Alexander would exit the department, the same day that Caputo took leave.How/where are you celebrating your birthday and with whom? “Most of the day, I will be in a window seat served by a Delta flight attendant who I feel sure has some huge airborne surprise bash planned. (Don’t tell her I know!) When I land, the good stuff: husband and my gang of kids who specialize in birthday. Hoping they remember that my birthday is a seasonal rollout, kinda like Advent.”How did you get your start in your career? “After Heritage Foundation, I took a pro-life job on Capitol Hill working for a Democrat -- both a position and a party I had previously committed to forever rejecting.”What’s an interesting book/article you’re reading during coronavirus social distancing? And why? “Finished and delivered during Covid was my own ‘Life is Winning’ with forward by VPOTUS Pence -- interesting because it was illuminating to write and was my second-closest experience to actually giving birth.“Also: ‘America on Trial: A Defense of the Founding’ by Robert Reilly exposes the threat to our founding that the rise of progressivism and absolutism poses. He counters with a deep and wide interdisciplinary description of the roots of the founders’ belief that man is capable of finding objective truth. Rational debate can take us where we need to go. Debate through virtue signaling is foundation-crushing. “Also favorite listen: Laurence Fox’s ‘The Distance.’”What’s a trend going on in the U.S. or abroad that doesn’t get enough attention? “What’s trending is that we are so utterly #trendy. The virtual revolution has been an incredible gift in so many ways. But with the rise of virtual life and social media, we are losing (within just a couple generations) the primacy of the present personal relationships in our lives. This erodes our humanity. Escape to the glowing screen threatens to become no escape at all. ‘Real’ life becomes the new escape. We are capable of mitigating the trend by mastering the tools and avoiding becoming them. I hear my Grannah saying: ‘I told you so!’ And she did.”What are you watching for in the Biden presidency? “I’m watching for continued reaction among Democratic grassroots to national-level abortion absolutism -- leading to increased Democratic support in states for party moderation and middle-ground legislation on abortion. Increasing pressure on national party to accept popular later term limits and non-discrimination (gender, disability, ethnicity) measures.”What’s a fun fact that people in Washington might not know about you? “My family claims divergent current political figures. Husband’s family claims Bernie Sanders and my Jones family, Ken and Teiro Cuccinelli. Our holiday dinner political conversation spans comfortably between these poles.”Long-standing issues over funding for the Department of Homeland Security and President Donald Trump’s border wall remain sticking points to finalizing the $1.4 trillion omnibus spending deal.House and Senate appropriators, who remain confident they can avert a government shutdown, have also struggled to compromise on criminal justice and police reform language, amid a broader congressional failure to respond to the summer’s protests over police brutality and systemic racial injustice.The Senate is set to pass the brief stopgap bill as soon as Thursday after the House cleared it with little fanfare on Wednesday. The measure punts the government funding deadline to Dec. 18, buying lawmakers more time to haggle over fiscal 2021 funding and billions of dollars in relief for Americans about to lose a critical lifeline when pandemic aid provisions expire at the end of the month.But the one-week extension realistically only buys congressional leaders and appropriators a few more days. Ideally, a government funding deal and a fiscal stimulus agreement must be locked up much sooner, leaving ample time for the release of complicated legislative text and for both chambers to clear a massive injection of federal cash before the holidays.Adding to the drama, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) is objecting to the $740 billion annual defense bill which the Senate was set to vote on Friday, which could also imperil a voting agreement on the stopgap and raises the prospects of a brief government shutdown over the weekend.When it comes to an omnibus — or a 12-bill appropriations package that would fund the government through Sept. 30 of next year — House Democratic and Senate Republican aides say the list of outstanding issues has generally narrowed in recent days, reporting significant progress since last week.“We’re close there,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi said of an omnibus during her weekly press conference on Thursday. “I mean, there are still some concerns but that’s the way it always goes."“If we need more time, then we take more time,” she said. “But we have to have a bill and we cannot go home without it,” she said of an omnibus and government funding. “We’ve been here after Christmas, as you know.”Senate Appropriations Chair Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) also said Thursday that lawmakers are approaching a deal.“We’re close,” he said, noting that he had just left a meeting about the omnibus bill. “There are a few things out there.”Yet some of the biggest stumbling blocks in recent days amount to familiar headaches.Senate Republicans have proposed $2 billion for Trump’s southern border wall — the issue at the heart of a historic government shutdown that began in December 2018. House Democrats proposed nothing in their fiscal 2021 appropriations bills, released earlier this year.Trump almost certainly won’t sign a package that guts funding for one of his biggest priorities as his administration comes to a close, all while he continues a baseless fight over election results that yielded a decisive win for President-elect Joe Biden. But negotiators must balance providing cash for outgoing Trump’s southern barrier and courting the incoming Biden administration, which has vowed to cut off border wall funding upon taking office.Issues like the border wall are among those that have trickled up to the leadership level. But Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.), the ranking Democrat on the Senate Appropriations subcommittee that oversees DHS funding, otherwise reported progress on immigration-related spending issues Wednesday.“It’s going fine,” he said. “Look, there’s things we don’t agree on and there will be some things in the bill that I would have done different.” But overall, he said he felt Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), the chair of the DHS spending panel, was “working in good faith.”Reaching middle ground on criminal justice language is also proving difficult for negotiators.Earlier this year, House Democrats included language in their fiscal 2021 spending bill for the Justice Department that would tie federal police grants to major reforms like chokehold bans and an end to racial profiling. Republicans argued that such reforms are often beyond the sole jurisdiction of local police departments and therefore, the effort amounted to “defunding the police.”Since then, Democrats have sought smaller wins to respond to the reckoning over race, such as funding for research on reducing racial and ethnic inequalities in the justice system. They have also pursued reports on Capitol Police training policies and procedures to eliminate unconscious bias and racial profiling. Republicans say they’ve been working to compromise on criminal justice issues.Republicans have also lamented yearslong policy riders that Democrats have sought to remove. Those include provisions that involve protections for the greater sage-grouse, in addition to a provision related to the carbon neutrality of forest biomass.Earlier this week, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Democrats must “resist the temptation to play brinkmanship with long-settled policy issues, or push poison pill riders that they know would take the process.”Energy and water issues have also posed pitfalls, and omnibus talks have also bled into other year-end legislative business, complicating the passage of a major water infrastructure bill in the Senate, for example.POLITICO reported on Wednesday that Shelby is objecting to language in that water infrastructure measure, which relates to the level of spending for port and harbor dredging that would be authorized by the bill. Shelby wants the legislation to be included in the omnibus, his spokesperson confirmed.Whether the one-week stopgap is enough time to clinch a compromise on a government funding package remains to be seen, although House and Senate aides say they’re optimistic about working in a bipartisan way to close the remaining gaps.If lawmakers fail to get a deal on government funding, they could resort to a longer stopgap spending bill through early next year.“These bills need to pass,” Majority Leader Steny Hoyer told reporters on Wednesday. “Hopefully the appropriators in the Senate and the House will come together and resolve differences, which are not the majority of the bill at all. The majority of items have been agreed to.”Heather Caygle and Annie Snider contributed to this report.A liberal group dedicated to voting rights is pouring $1 million into an independent expenditure to help Democrats win control of the Senate.The Voter Protection Project, which shared the news first with POLITICO, said it will use the funds on TV ads and direct mail supporting Democratic candidates Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff in Georgia’s Senate runoff races.The political action committee is airing its first attack ad as part of the effort slamming Republican Sen. Kelly Loeffler, whom Warnock is trying to unseat.“Kelly Loeffler pretends she’s one of us, but this billionaire is only about cashing in. Days before the pandemic, Loeffler attended a secret briefing about China and the coronavirus pandemic. Then failed to warn us,” the narrator in the spot says. “Instead, she dumped millions in stock before the economy crashed. We lost our jobs, but Loeffler stayed rich.”After receiving a private briefing on Covid-19 earlier this year, Loeffler sold millions in stock holdings, according to the Daily Beast. The Department of Justice investigated the trades, but there were no criminal charges.“When they attack me for a lie — a left-wing media lie conspired with the Democrats by — this is an attack on every single Georgian who gets up every day to work hard,” Loeffler said this week during a debate, where she dodged a question over whether congressional members should be barred from trading stocks.The Voter Protection Project is seeking to tamp down support for Loeffler among Republicans and right-leaning independents with its spot. It is running on Fox News in a handful of media markets throughout the state.“We still think there’s disillusioned Republicans,” said Matt Liebman, president of the Voter Protection Project. “With everything going on, Trump not conceding the election, I get there will be Republicans incredibly fired up thinking that the election’s rigged. But there’s also a lot of people out there who want this madness to stop.”The PAC is also planning to air a negative digital ad targeting Republican Sen. David Perdue, Ossoff’s opponent. It said its direct mail will be aimed at a half-million voters of color, specifically. Joe Biden became the first Democratic presidential candidate to win Georgia since 1992 in large part because of a massive boost from the racially diverse and left-leaning suburbs surrounding Atlanta.If Republicans win one of the Georgia races, they will maintain the majority in the Senate. If Democrats take back both seats, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris will be in the position to cast tie-breaking votes in the 50-50 Senate, giving the party control of the chamber.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer called on Republicans Thursday to drop plans for a hearing centering on alleged “irregularities” in the 2020 presidential election.The hearing, called by Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Chair Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) is scheduled to take place on Wednesday, just two days after members of the Electoral College meet to cast their 306 electoral votes for President-elect Joe Biden and 232 for President Donald Trump.All 50 states and the District of Columbia have already certified their tallies, but Trump is continuing to push baseless allegations of voter fraud in battleground states where Biden won. Most Republicans are still refusing acknowledge Biden won the election. “When is this nonsense detrimental to our democracy going to end?” Schumer (D-N.Y.) said on the Senate floor. “To use a Senate committee to spread misinformation about our own elections, it’s beyond the pale.” Schumer said Johnson, a top Trump ally, should call off the “ridiculous” hearing and said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell should intervene.In a statement announcing the hearing, Johnson said that even though courts continue to review the various legal challenges, “a large percentage of the American public does not view the 2020 election result as legitimate.”“That is not a sustainable state of affairs for our country,” Johnson said. “The only way to resolve suspicions is with full transparency and public awareness. That will be the goal of the hearing.”McConnell has remained largely silent on Trump’s efforts to overturn the election results, even as Trump has sought to pressure Republican state legislators and members of Congress to defy the will of the voters based on unsubstantiated claims of widespread fraud. Trump’s campaign attorneys and his allies nationwide have lost dozens of court challenges, with judges across the spectrum deriding their claims as unfounded and harmful to democracy.Earlier this week, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton appealed to the Supreme Court to invalidate the election results in four battleground states that Biden won. The long-shot lawsuit was joined by 16 other Republican attorneys general. Trump is meeting with the group at the White House later Thursday.Johnson, for his part, has not ruled out the possibility of joining some House Republicans in challenging the Electoral College results when Congress meets next month to certify the tally. Utah Sen. Mitt Romney has condemned the effort, calling it ”madness.”Johnson is term-limited as chair of the Homeland Security Committee — a perch he has used to investigate Biden’s son Hunter in addition to the 2016-era Russia investigation — so he will relinquish the post in January.Johnson is up for reelection in 2022.Dozens of House Republicans are warning Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell against proceeding with climate risk regulations for the financial system, in the first major political rebuke of the Fed's new efforts.In a letter Wednesday to Powell and Fed Vice Chair for Supervision Randal Quarles, the 47 GOP lawmakers discouraged the central bank from imposing stress tests on lenders to measure their vulnerability to climate change — a move that they said could spur banks to cut ties with the oil and gas and coal industries.The Republicans also urged the Fed to limit its involvement in the international Network for Greening the Financial System, a group of central banks and regulatory agencies focused on mitigating financial shocks arising from climate risks. Quarles announced last month that the Fed had asked to join the group.The organized pushback by the Republicans is a preview of what the Fed and other financial agencies face as they begin to address economic fallout from global warming and a possible transition away from reliance on fossil fuels."This is less about predicting financial stress and more about creating financial stress for politically incorrect, disfavored industries," said Rep. Andy Barr (R-Ky.), who organized the letter.The Fed regularly conducts tests on large banks to measure their ability to withstand adverse economic conditions, including those presented by the coronavirus pandemic. Stress tests on climate could gauge their resilience to financial risks posed by extreme weather and the transition to a carbon-neutral economy. The Fed has not announced plans to incorporate climate into stress tests.The Fed has only just begun to share its views on the subject. Last month, Powell said the Fed is "very actively in the early stages" of getting up to speed but that he believed climate change posed a material risk in the financial system.The work is expected to accelerate under a Biden administration, with advocates pushing Treasury Secretary nominee Janet Yellen and other appointees to make climate risk a high priority.The moves are fueling complaints by Republicans that banks will cave to political pressure and cut ties with the energy industry. The concern prompted the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to propose a rule that would discourage lenders from making broad-based decisions to stop financing certain industries."It is possible that the introduction of climate change stress tests could perpetuate this trend, allowing regulated banks to cite negative impacts on their supervisory tests as an excuse to defund or divest from these crucial industries," the GOP lawmakers said in their letter.A Fed spokesman said, "We have received the letter and plan to respond.”The Republicans who signed the letter included several on the Financial Services Committee, which oversees the Fed, as well as many members who aren't on the panel, including House Republican Conference Chair Liz Cheney of Wyoming.Europe and the U.K. have been more active on addressing climate risks during the Trump era, including a move by the Bank of England to develop climate stress tests. House Republicans in their letter said "those suggested paths forward are plagued with speculation, inconsistencies, and reliance on long-term projections that may not adequately account for shifting market dynamics.""It would be unwise for U.S. regulators to mirror the efforts of their European counterparts without first conducting extensive review," the lawmakers said. They added that "a number of methodological challenges could negatively impact the effectiveness and reliability of climate change stress testing."Powell and Quarles, both appointed by President Donald Trump, aren't alone in pursuing greater scrutiny of climate risks. Federal Housing Finance Agency Director Mark Calabria, another Trump appointee, has also said that financial regulators need to account for climate change.In their letter, the Republican lawmakers said the Fed should not join the Network for Greening the Financial System without making a series of public commitments about its role, including that the Fed would only implement recommendations that "would not disproportionately disadvantage U.S. banks compared to their European competitors and would not have harmful impacts on the customers those banks serve."Barr, the top Republican on the House Financial Services oversight subcommittee, said he was disappointed that the Fed was joining the international effort. He speculated that Powell and Quarles were responding to growing pressure from inside and outside the central bank and that "maybe the Fed wants to get ahead of this a little bit and shift into alignment with the views of the incoming [Biden] administration.""That's a big mistake," he said. "It compromises the independence of the Fed. But beyond that, bank regulators and bank supervisors should not be in the business of implementing green environmental policy. That's not their job."House Speaker Nancy Pelosi gave a vote of confidence Thursday to Rep. Eric Swalwell after revelations of his interactions with a suspected Chinese spy set off a furor among Republicans in Congress.“I don't have any concern about Mr. Swalwell,” Pelosi told reporters. Pelosi also admonished House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy for calling for Swalwell to lose his seat on the House Intelligence Committee. “I do think that it is unfortunate that Mr. McCarthy is trying to make an issue of this,” she said. “But you know what he's trying to do, he's trying to deflect attention from the fact that he has QAnon in his delegation over there,” Pelosi added, referring to an outlandish conspiracy theory that has taken root among some conservatives and put Republicans on the defensive.Pelosi said she and other congressional leaders were informed in 2015 about the matter at the same time that Swalwell was by the FBI. Law enforcement authorities were monitoring the woman at the center of the controversy and believed her to be an operative of China’s Ministry of State Security. Known alternatively as Fang Fang or Christina Fang, the woman came to know Swalwell while he was still a city council member and had stayed in his orbit while he was in Congress, allegedly assisting with fundraising for Swalwell's 2014 reelection campaign as well as helping to place an intern in his office, according to a report from Axios.Swalwell immediately cut off contact with Fang — who is no longer in the country — when the FBI alerted him, and he has not been accused of any improper actions in his dealings with her. “We knew at the same moment,” she said. “We knew when they knew and at that time, that was the end of it.”McCarthy told Fox News Thursday morning that he was unaware of the matter until it came to light publicly earlier this week. “I’m going to ask the FBI director to brief me,” McCarthy said. "As a leader and a member of the Gang of Eight, I did not know of this."Republicans have jumped at the chance to turn the screws on Swalwell following the report linking him to a suspected Chinese spy, and the news has captivated conservative media for days. “Oh my gosh, talk about karma,” Rep. Chris Stewart (R-Utah), who sits with the California Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said Thursday on Fox News. “If this doesn't show that God doesn't have a sense of humor, what else does?”The idea that any member of Congress had contact with an alleged spy for one of the country’s biggest global rivals would be fodder under any circumstances, but Swalwell had a particularly large target on his back. Swalwell gained prominence in recent years as a frequent antagonist of Trump’s during the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election, and due to his abortive bid for the Democratic presidential nomination that ended in July 2019. Republicans accused Swalwell of holding the president to a double standard. “It was all Russia, Russia, Russia,” Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R-Ohio) said Thursday on Fox News. “He showed no concern about China, which if he went through an event of some type then he should be greatly concerned about China, and we didn't hear from him on that.”McCarthy and a collection of top Republicans have called into question Swalwell’s continued membership on the committee and tried to drag Pelosi and committee Chair Adam Schiff into the mire. “He is jeopardizing national security,” McCarthy said Thursday. “When did Nancy Pelosi know of this and why did she maintain him on the committee?”Swalwell has sprung to his own defense, calling conservative attacks on him a cynical attempt to tar him for his criticisms of Trump. “To do that against a critic of the president, they may think they're going to silence me,” Swalwell said Wednesday on CNN. “They are not going to silence me, but what they are going to do is they are going to make others think twice when they are asked to sit down and provide defensive information about people like this.”Other congressional Republicans have also been quick to pile on to the California Democrat. “Nancy Pelosi cannot allow him to stay on the intelligence committee, and he's got to come clean with this,” Sen. Rick Scott (R-Fla.) said on Fox Business. Trump himself thus far has not directly entered into the fray, but Thursday morning retweeted an earlier post from Texas Rep. Lance Gooden claiming Swalwell “actually colluded” with an an agent of the Chinese government.State Department officials did not thoroughly document whether several trips taken by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s wife, Susan, were approved in advance, one of at least two investigations into the couple’s activities has concluded. The determination is contained in a State Department inspector general’s report, a copy of which was obtained by POLITICO. Given the public attention to the probes — awareness that spiked after Mike Pompeo engineered the firing of the inspector general in May — the conclusion is a relatively mild one. The report doesn’t even recommend anyone be penalized, just that officials do a better job of documenting their work. But top aides to Pompeo have expressed fury over the probe and its findings. One wrote a rebuttal that accuses investigators of structuring the report in a way that allows “partisan actors” to “torture, twist and contort the report to imply that the secretary and department somehow did something improper.” The reaction underscores the increasingly poisonous relationship between Pompeo and the inspector general’s office. Pompeo, who will be out of office by the time Joe Biden is inaugurated as president on Jan. 20, not only pushed out the inspector general, Steve Linick, he’s also refused to fully cooperate with investigations into him and his wife as well as other probes. Pompeo has frequently ignored or dismissed recommendations by the inspector general’s office to reprimand aides accused of wrongdoing. He’s also complained that the inspector general’s office hasn’t been in sync with what he sees as the State Department’s mission, even though that office is supposed to act as an independent watchdog. The new report focuses on narrow questions involving Susan Pompeo’s traveling with her husband on several of his official trips. It was prompted by a whistleblower’s complaint, according to the inspector general’s office. (A second investigation into the Pompeos’ use of taxpayer resources has been held up because Mike Pompeo refuses to be interviewed.) Investigators found that on at least eight occasions between April 2018 and April 2020, Susan Pompeo traveled with Mike Pompeo in a “representational,” or official, capacity. That meant she was not required to reimburse costs of the trip and was eligible to receive staff support during the journey. Based on guidance from the State Department legal adviser’s office and the Foreign Affairs Manual, a compilation of rules governing department staffers, investigators sought to determine whether two documents were prepared for each instance of travel. One document laid out the justification for allowing Susan Pompeo to travel in an official capacity; the other was supposed to show that an authorized official had approved the travel. For all eight trips, State Department officials were able to provide documents that in one way or another offered justification for permitting Susan Pompeo to travel in an official capacity to places ranging from Bangkok to Baghdad. When it came to approval documents, however, the State Department was able to provide such materials for only two of the eight trips. According to the report, Undersecretary of State for Management Brian Bulatao — a longtime friend and former business partner of Mike Pompeo’s — told investigators he had verbally approved four of the other six trips. At one point, he said he had never been told he needed to document the approvals. (Bulatao’s office also initially said he wasn’t involved but later acknowledged that was incorrect.) For two of the trips, the inspector general’s office “could not determine either through its document review or interviews whether an appropriate department official approved the trips.” The report makes clear that its recommendation for better documentation is a matter of following guidelines and principles designed “for internal control and recordkeeping purposes.” It does not allege that anyone violated any laws. The investigators also make clear they “did not assess” whether the justifications offered for allowing Susan Pompeo to travel in an official capacity were fair. It was not clear exactly why the investigators avoided tackling that thorny issue, but it could have been a matter of time, resources, or simply a hesitation to second-guess rationales offered by people more attuned to diplomatic cross-currents. In a lengthy rebuttal included in the overall report, State Department Counselor Ulrich Brechbuhl — another longtime friend of Mike Pompeo’s who acts as his de facto chief of staff — questions the very point and basis of the investigation. Brechbuhl slams the inspector general’s office for not stating upfront that “there was no violation of any law or statute” nor “any regulation” nor even “any Foreign Affairs Manual provision.” Brechbuhl also writes that he is assuming that the original whistleblower’s complaint alleged that the department wasn’t authorized to pay for Susan Pompeo’s travel or that her travel was somehow “not in compliance with the law.” Neither of these things is true, Brechbuhl asserts, and “that, it seems obvious, should have been the end of the investigation.” The inspector general’s report does not detail exactly what the whistleblower’s complaint mentioned. Regardless, Brechbuhl alleges that the watchdog office “must have decided to interpret and modify the whistleblower complaint” to be about administrative directives or other department guidance. “The [Office of the Inspector General] then decided to use that ‘made up’ complaint to initiate an investigation of its choosing,” Brechbuhl alleges, with zero evidence. Some of Brechbuhl’s allegations were echoed in a statement issued by the State Department spokesperson’s office as this article was about to publish. The statement accused the inspector general’s office, media and Democrats in Congress of wasting time on “fraudulent“ investigations into the Pompeos, and said they owed the couple apologies.In response, New Jersey Sen. Bob Menendez, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, accused State Department leaders of showing “nothing but disdain for legitimate oversight.” “The department’s response to a routine exercise of independent oversight demonstrates how the Trump administration has never quite grasped the fundamental role that inspectors general play in holding agencies accountable to the law and the American taxpayer,“ Menendez said in a statement.In his rebuttal, Brechbuhl further asserts that the guidance contained in the Foreign Affairs Manual covers U.S. diplomats and other underlings of the secretary of State, not the secretary nor his wife. This is a matter of some ambiguity acknowledged by the inspector general’s office. But investigators also noted that the State Department legal adviser had offered guidance to officials dealing with the Pompeos’ travel that generally followed the Foreign Affairs Manual. Brechbuhl, who has written similar rebuttals to other inspector general reports, argued that even if the Foreign Affairs Manual guidance was applicable, State Department officials hadn’t necessarily done anything wrong. In one instance, he asserts, the manual, “only says that such filing ‘should’ be made — that is permissive, not mandated.” Nonetheless, Brechbuhl acknowledges that, earlier in 2020, the State Department legal adviser also had recommended to higher-ups that they document the decisions around such travel. “We agree with the [legal adviser’s] guidance and the [inspector general’s office] recommendations,” Brechbuhl writes. He then proceeds to once again slam the investigation. “Given this work resulted only in a seat of recommendations on purely administrative matters, department leadership wonders why the [inspector general’s office] wasted both time (its, as well as that of many department officials) and resources writing a report,” Brechbuhl states. “Would it not have been better to have simply approached department leadership in a collaborative manner and discussed these concerns?”An assistant FBI director retired after he was accused of drunkenly groping a female subordinate in a stairwell. Another senior FBI official left after he was found to have sexually harassed eight employees. Yet another high-ranking FBI agent retired after he was accused of blackmailing a young employee into sexual encounters.An Associated Press investigation has identified at least six sexual misconduct allegations involving senior FBI officials over the past five years, including two new claims brought this week by women who say they were sexually assaulted by ranking agents.Each of the accused FBI officials appears to have avoided discipline, the AP found, and several were quietly transferred or retired, keeping their full pensions and benefits even when probes substantiated the sexual misconduct claims against them.Beyond that, federal law enforcement officials are afforded anonymity even after the disciplinary process runs its course, allowing them to land on their feet in the private sector or even remain in law enforcement.“They’re sweeping it under the rug,” said a former FBI analyst who alleges in a new federal lawsuit that a supervisory special agent licked her face and groped her at a colleague’s farewell party in 2017. She ended up leaving the FBI and has been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder.“As the premier law enforcement organization that the FBI holds itself out to be, it’s very disheartening when they allow people they know are criminals to retire and pursue careers in law enforcement-related fields,” said the woman, who asked to be identified in this story only by her first name, Becky.The AP’s count does not include the growing number of high-level FBI supervisors who have failed to report romantic relationships with subordinates in recent years — a pattern that has alarmed investigators with the Office of Inspector General and raised questions about bureau policy.The recurring sexual misconduct has drawn the attention of Congress and advocacy groups, which have called for whistleblower protections for rank-and-file FBI employees and for an outside entity to review the bureau’s disciplinary cases.“They need a #MeToo moment,” said U.S. Rep. Jackie Speier, a California Democrat who has been critical of the treatment of women in the male-dominated FBI.“It’s repugnant, and it underscores the fact that the FBI and many of our institutions are still good ol’-boy networks,” Speier said. “It doesn’t surprise me that, in terms of sexual assault and sexual harassment, they are still in the Dark Ages.”In a statement, the FBI said it “maintains a zero-tolerance policy toward sexual harassment” and that claims against supervisors have resulted in them being removed from their positions while cases are investigated and adjudicated.It added that severe cases can result in criminal charges and that the FBI's internal disciplinary process assesses, among other factors, “the credibility of the allegations, the severity of the conduct, and the rank and position of the individuals involved.”The AP review of court records, Office of Inspector General reports and interviews with federal law enforcement officials identified at least six allegations against senior officials, including an assistant director and special agents in charge of entire field offices, that ranged from unwanted touching and sexual advances to coercion.None appears to have been disciplined, but another sexual misconduct allegation identified in the AP review of a rank-and-file agent resulted in him losing his security clearance.The FBI, with more than 35,000 employees, keeps a notoriously tight lid on such allegations. The last time the Office of Inspector General did an extensive probe of sexual misconduct within the FBI, it tallied 343 “offenses” from fiscal years 2009 to 2012, including three instances of “videotaping undressed women without consent.”The latest claims come months after a 17th woman joined a federal lawsuit alleging systemic sexual harassment at the FBI’s training academy in Quantico, Virginia. That class-action case claims male FBI instructors made “sexually charged” comments about women needing to “take their birth control to control their moods,” inviting women trainees over to their homes and openly disparaging them.In one of the new lawsuits filed Wednesday, a former FBI employee identified only as “Jane Doe” alleged a special agent in charge in 2016 retired without discipline and opened a law firm even after he “imprisoned, tortured, harassed, blackmailed, stalked and manipulated” her into having several “non-consensual sexual encounters,” including one in which he forced himself on her in a car. The AP is withholding the name and location of the accused special agent to protect the woman’s identity.“It is the policy and practice of the FBI and its OIG to allow senior executives accused of sexual assault to quietly retire with full benefits without prosecution,” the woman’s attorney, David J. Shaffer, alleges in the lawsuit.One such case involved Roger C. Stanton, who before his abrupt retirement served as assistant director of the Insider Threat Office, a division at Washington headquarters tasked with rooting out leakers and safeguarding national security information.According to an Inspector General’s report concluded this year and obtained by AP through a public records request, Stanton was accused of drunkenly driving a female subordinate home following an after-work happy hour. The woman told investigators that once inside a stairwell of her apartment building, Stanton wrapped his arm around her waist and “moved his hand down onto her bottom” before she was able to get away and hustle up the stairs.After Stanton left, he called the woman 15 times on her FBI phone and sent her what investigators described as “garbled text” complaining that he could not find his vehicle. The heavily redacted report does not say when the incident happened.Stanton disputed the woman’s account and told investigators he “did not intend to do anything” and only placed his arm around her because of the “narrowness” of the stairs. But Stanton acknowledged he was “very embarrassed by this event” and “assistant directors should not be putting themselves in these situations.”Stanton retired in late 2018 after the investigation determined he sexually harassed the woman and sought an improper relationship. He did not respond to requests for comment from AP.Earlier this year, the Inspector General found that the special agent in charge of the Albany, New York, office, James N. Hendricks, sexually harassed eight subordinates at the FBI.Hendricks also was not named in the OIG report despite its findings. He was first identified in September by the Albany Times Union. One current and one former colleague of Hendricks confirmed his role in the case to AP.Hendricks now writes a law enforcement blog in which he touts his FBI accolades but makes no mention of the misconduct allegations. He did not respond to requests for comment.Becky, the former analyst, told AP she once believed FBI’s “organizational values and mission aligned with how I was raised.” But she was disabused of that notion after reporting to management that Charles Dick, a supervisory special agent at the FBI Training Academy at the time, sexually assaulted her at a farewell party.Becky told AP her assailant had threatened her at least two times before. “Once while we were waiting for the director he said, ‘I’m going to touch your ass. You know it’s going to happen.’”“His boorish behavior was well known,” she added. “He was getting away with everything.”In a federal lawsuit filed Wednesday, Becky accused the former agent of wrapping his arm around her chest while posing for a photograph and “reaching under her and simulating” penetration of her “with his fingers through her jeans.”Dick denied the charges and was acquitted in state court in Virginia by a judge who ruled it “wholly incredible” that Becky would “stand there and take it and not say anything,” according to a transcript of the proceeding. Dick retired from the FBI months before the Inspector General followed up on Becky’s internal complaint, Becky alleged in her lawsuit, adding she faced retaliation for coming forward.“It’s much easier to suffer in isolation than it is to go public," she told AP. “But if I don’t report it, I’m complicit in the cultural and institutionalized cover-up of this sort of behavior.”The U.S. military is on heightened alert and shoring up its forces in the Middle East to respond to a potential Iranian attack, a military official told POLITICO. Specifically, the Pentagon is closely watching “troubling indicators of potential attack preparations” from Iranian militias in Iraq, the official said. Pro-Iranian groups have recently resumed rocket attacks there, nearly a year after Iran launched ballistic missiles at the Ayn al Asad air base in western Iraq. More than 100 U.S. service members suffered brain injuries in that attack.The Pentagon announced Thursday that it flew a pair of B-52 bombers from their base in Barksdale, La., to the Middle East and back to "deter aggression" in the region. The military has also taken other steps in recent weeks, including sending the aircraft carrier USS Nimitz back to the Middle East and dispatching an additional fighter jet squadron from Europe. The moves are designed to deter Iran from taking any aggressive action against U.S. and coalition forces in the region, said the military official, who asked not to be named in order to discuss the moves. The Pentagon is concerned that Tehran could take advantage of the presidential transition and U.S. troop withdrawals from Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as the upcoming anniversary of the U.S. killing of Iranian leader Qassem Soleimani, the official said. “All those are factors that make it prudent to have a strong defensive posture right now in the region,” the official said, stressing that the moves are “not offensive in nature.” “There is no plan here to act, there is a plan to portray a strong defensive posture that would give a potential adversary pause.”Most recently, the “short-notice, non-stop” bomber flight this week was designed to show the military’s commitment to other countries in the region, according to a statement from U.S. Central Command. "The ability to fly strategic bombers halfway across the world in a non-stop mission, and to rapidly integrate them with multiple regional partners demonstrates our close working relationships and our shared commitment to regional security and stability," said Central Command chief Gen. Frank McKenzie.The drawdowns in Iraq and Afghanistan will not negatively affect the military’s ability to respond to an Iranian attack, the official said, noting that moving troops out of the region decreases the number of potential targets."We do not seek conflict," McKenzie said, "but we must remain postured and committed to respond to any contingency or in opposition to any aggression."LAS VEGAS – On a highway ride to celebrate a cyclist's retirement, five bicyclists were killed and four others were injured in a crash involving a truck, according to authorities. The Thursday morning crash happened on U.S. 95 south of Boulder City, according to Nevada Highway Patrol spokesman Jason Buratczuk.A box truck struck a group of about 20 bicyclists. The vehicle remains on scene as authorities investigate what caused the crash. "It doesn't appear to be impairment," Buratczuk said. "It appears to be a tragic accident." Of the four bicyclists injured, one of the riders was flown to a hospital in a helicopter in critical condition.It appeared the bicyclists were part of an organized ride, Buratczuk said. They had a chase vehicle with them with flashers.U.S. Highway 95 southbound will be closed till about 6 p.m. Thursday, according to Nevada Department of Transportation spokesman Tony Illia. Clay Weeks, an employee at the Pro Cyclery bike shop, knew many of the bicyclists involved in the tragic crash."They were on a retirement ride for one of the community cyclists," Weeks said. "We've talked to a couple people who were on the ride. Obviously everybody is super upset and distraught. It's pretty horrific that something like this would happen. There's really no words." The tragedy startled Southern Nevada's close-knit bicycling community."We see everybody on all these rides on a regular basis," Weeks said. "We all ride together."Weeks is familiar with the stretch of road near Searchlight where the crash unfolded. On Thursday, he struggled to understand how a crash could happen there."That shoulder on the side of that highway is wide enough to fit three cars," Weeks said. "We don't really know how somebody managed to get that far off the road. These were all very very experienced cyclists. It's not like they accidentally rode off and into the road. These are people who ride 10,000 miles a year. Some race professionally. How did something like this mistakenly happen?"Follow reporter Ed Komenda on Twitter: @ejkomenda'Christmas miracle':Texas boy who fell into well rescued by first responders who chiseled him freeCoronavirus live updates:CDC scientist says she was ordered to destroy email; Pfizer's vaccine authorization could be imminentThe novel coronavirus has been an American horror story. That could change, and soon: Pfizer's COVID-19 vaccine candidate could earn emergency authorization... today. It's Ashley with the news everyone's talking about today.But first, the 'Florida Man' did not slow down in 2020: Here are his best headlines of the year, from alligator attacks to nunchuck fights. 🐊The Short List is a snappy USA TODAY news roundup. Subscribe here!The U.S. wasn't prepared when the coronavirus crept into the country. Before the nearly 300,000 deaths, the financial devastation, the unending isolation, there was this: A tickle in a throat in Chicago. A woman’s collapse in her kitchen. A playwright with one lung fleeing New York. Though the coronavirus didn’t start in the U.S., government missteps and cultural realities helped make it our own, a USA TODAY report found. In early 2020, many countries took decisive steps to curtail crowds and otherwise prevent infection. But America's lack of action to curtail the virus was devastating, and failed efforts to reopen made things worse. As cases continue to mount across the U.S., USA TODAY talked to real Americans in the path of the virus to examine how America got sick and why the virus continues to spread. Other important COVID-19 updates: President-elect Joe Biden chose Susan Rice to be director of the White House Domestic Policy Council, a surprise choice that will give the foreign policy veteran a hefty domestic portfolio. Rice is a seasoned diplomat with extensive national security experience, but she has not been heavily involved in domestic policymaking. The 56-year-old Rice was seen as a top contender to be Biden's secretary of state, though she would have faced a difficult confirmation battle. As head of Biden's Domestic Policy Council, she will have broad influence over everything from health policy to immigration to rural affairs. Speaking of influence, it's Biden's first ethics test: The investigation into Hunter Biden's taxes represents a test of Biden's pledge to guard the Justice Department from White House influence.Ellen DeGeneres has tested positive for COVID-19 but is "feeling fine right now," the television host announced Thursday. The diagnosis has put a pause on the production on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" until January, a spokesperson confirmed. DeGeneres, 62, said in a tweet, "I'll see you all again after the holidays." In October, "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" became one of the first television productions to return to inviting a limited number of in-studio audience members since the coronavirus forced widespread shutdowns in the entertainment industry. In another economic blow, the COVID-19 pandemic is taking a toll on the nation’s population growth. The number of U.S. residents is likely to increase by just 700,000, or 0.2%, this year, the slowest pace since 1918, when the Spanish Flu and World War I combined to shrink America’s population, according to estimates. A solidly growing population is a major economic engine, creating more consumers – whose spending makes up 70% of the economy – and a larger labor force to churn out more goods and services. The pandemic is curtailing population growth most obviously by killing Americans who otherwise would both consume and produce goods and services. But the crisis is also amplifying three other forces already impeding healthy population advances – a lower birth rate, rising mortality and reduced immigration. Today marks the start of the eight-night Festival of Lights, Hanukkah. During Hanukkah, the Jewish people light candles on a menorah to celebrate the miracle of a one-day oil supply lasting eight after the Maccabean Revolt in the second century B.C. But wait, is it Hanukkah or Chanukah? Both are correct. In fact, there are more than a dozen variations of how to spell the holiday's name in English. Here's everything you need to know about the holiday. And no, it's not the "Jewish Christmas."Ever wanted to see the Northern Lights? The answer is always yes. You might be able to catch a glimpse of the aurora borealis tonight if you live in the northern U.S. According to SpaceWeather.com, auroras could be sighted in U.S. states from Maine to Montana to Washington this week (if clouds work in our favor). The colorful event is courtesy of a solar flare, which erupted out of a sunspot Monday. A coronal mass ejection – a burst of plasma from the sun – also arrived on Earth early Thursday.This is a compilation of stories from across the USA TODAY Network. Want this news roundup in your inbox every night? Sign up for The Short List newsletter here.LAKELAND, Fla. – For the first time in more than 31 years, Richard DeLisi will be able to spend Christmas with family members.DeLisi, described as the longest-serving inmate for nonviolent marijuana crimes in the nation, walked out of South Bay Correctional Facility in Palm Beach County, Florida, on Tuesday morning as a free man.Sentenced in 1989 to a 90-year term in a Polk County courtroom, DeLisi left prison ahead of his scheduled June 2022 release.“It actually feels like 10 times better than wonderful,” DeLisi, 71, told The (Lakeland, Fla.) Ledger, part of the USA TODAY Network. “It was so unjust what they did to me. I just hope that I can help other people that are in the same situation.”DeLisi and his older brother, Ted DeLisi, were convicted in 1989 of trafficking in cannabis, conspiracy to traffic in cannabis and a violation of the Racketeer Influenced Corrupt Organization (RICO) Act. Judge Dennis Maloney sentenced both brothers to three consecutive 30-year sentences, well beyond the recommendations in judicial guidelines.Previously:The country's longest-serving inmate for marijuana crimes will be released early, organization saysMore states continue to legalize:These states legalized recreational marijuana on Election DayTed DeLisi successfully appealed his conspiracy conviction and was released from prison in 2013, but Richard DeLisi’s appeal was rejected.After leaving the prison, DeLisi gathered with family members and lawyers who had worked for his release. He plans to live with his brother-in-law, Robert Burrows, in Broward County.Advocates argued that DeLisi should be released because he has multiple health problems and was at risk of dying if he contracted COVID-19 while in prison.The Last Prisoner Project, a nonprofit that advocates for people serving long sentences for nonviolent, cannabis-related crimes, championed DeLisi’s cause and pushed for his release.The Florida Department of Corrections said the shortening of DeLisi’s sentence had nothing to do with the efforts of any outside parties.The department reviews inmate records periodically, and a recent review of DeLisi’s records found that he had not been awarded 390 days of provisional release credits for several months immediately following his reception into agency custody in 1989, DOC Press Secretary Kayla McLaughlin said by email. The resulting adjustment moved his release date up to May 13, 2021.The department also has discretionary authority to restore gain time forfeited during an inmate’s incarceration for disciplinary infractions. McLaughlin said DeLisi forfeited 120 days of gain time for infractions, but his last disciplinary report was in 2005, and he met the general requirements to be considered for restoration.A rule requires an inmate to be within 120 days of the release date before the restoration can occur, making DeLisi eligible. He received discretionary restoration of lost gain time, pushing up his release to Tuesday.Lawyers consulting with The Last Prisoner Project compiled a 223-page document in August arguing for DeLisi’s release and sent it to the office of Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis. That was a supplement to a clemency application DeLisi filed earlier this year.Follow reporter Gary White on Twitter: @garywhite13American Virus:It may not have started here, but the novel coronavirus became a U.S. tragedyJoe Biden's centrist dilemma:Police groups say he's gone too far left; activists say he hasn't gone far enoughWASHINGTON – The Supreme Court's increasingly fervent support for religious freedom was extended Thursday to three Muslim men placed on a no-fly list as punishment for refusing to become government informants.In a unanimous ruling written by Associate Justice Clarence Thomas, the court ruled that the federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 permits monetary damages, in addition to injunctive relief.The case involved Muhammad Tanvir, Jameel Algibhah, and Naveed Shinwari, all practicing Muslims. They claimed that FBI agents put them on the government's no-fly list because they would not spy on fellow Muslims.The Department of Homeland Security eventually removed the restriction and allowed them to fly, mooting part of the case. But the men claimed that the retaliation cost them income from lost job opportunities, in addition to having airline tickets wasted."A person whose exercise of religion has been unlawfully burdened may 'obtain appropriate relief against a government,'" Thomas wrote, quoting the federal law. The term 'government' extends to individual officials, he said."A damages remedy is not just 'appropriate' relief as viewed through the lens of suits against government employees. It is also the only form of relief that can remedy some (Religious Freedom Restoration Act) violations," Thomas wrote.New Associate Justice Amy Coney Barrett did not participate in the case because she was not confirmed in time to hear oral argument in October.The high court consistently has defended religious freedom in recent years, most recently last month when it blocked rules in New York and California that severely restricted gatherings at houses of worship in areas hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic.Associate Justice Samuel Alito recently told the conservative Federalist Society that COVID-19 restrictions have resulted in "previously unimaginable restrictions on individual liberty." He denounced high court rulings that he said discriminated against religious groups and argued that the pandemic highlighted a wider assault on religious freedom.USA TODAY's coverage of the 2020 election and President-elect Joe Biden's transition continues this week as he rolls out more of his picks for top jobs in his administration. Meanwhile, the remaining final states certify their vote counts before the Electoral College ballots are officially cast Monday.President Donald Trump has cleared the way for Biden's team to use federal resources and get briefings during the transition, although Trump has yet to formally concede the race.Be sure to refresh this page often to get the latest information on the election and the transition.A progressive climate group issued a blistering statement against President-elect Joe Biden for selecting Rep. Marcia Fudge, D-Ohio, to lead the Department of Housing and Urban Development rather than the U.S. Department of Agriculture.Sunrise Movement Executive Director Varshini Prakash said in a statement Thursday that it is “frustrating” that Fudge was “sidestepped to head the USDA” in favor of former Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. Several members of the Congressional Black Caucus, as well as civil rights and Black women’s groups, initially had advocated for Fudge to be selected to lead USDA. Fudge is head of the House Subcommittee on Nutrition and Oversight as part of her service on the House Agriculture Committee.“While we believe Rep. Fudge can excel at any leadership position, we share the confusion of many about this move and are left to believe this choice stems from shallow racial stereotypes about the office,” Prakash said in the statement.Prakash went on to criticize Vilsack, whom Biden is expected to nominate as Agriculture secretary. She said that under his tenure during the Obama administration, Vilsack “was particularly disgraceful for Black farmers.”“If Biden appoints Vilsack to lead the USDA, it would be a slap in the face to Black Americans who delivered the election to Joe Biden,” she said. “Vilsack failed Black farmers before – it’s not necessary to give him another shot when other candidates are well qualified for the role.”Other progressive activist organizations have also criticized Biden’s decision to choose Vilsack to lead USDA.“It is a huge mistake by President-elect Biden’s transition team to completely dismiss the swift, strong, and clear reaction against Tom Vilsack from the Black voters who delivered Biden his victory and the rural voters he most needs to win over,” said Shawn Sebastian, a senior strategist at People’s Action, a grassroots organizing network.Asked during a Thursday Congressional Progressive Caucus conference call with reporters whether Vilsack's appointment was a "missed opportunity," Rep.-elect Cori Bush said it was not, but noted it was an "opportunity for other people to shine."– Rebecca MorinDoug Emhoff, the incoming second gentleman, is joining the faculty at Georgetown Law, where he will be teaching a class focused on media and entertainment.Emhoff, husband to Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, will serve as a “distinguished visitor from practice” and as a distinguished fellow of the Georgetown Law Institute for Technology Law and Policy.“I’ve long wanted to teach and serve the next generation of young lawyers,” Emhoff said in a statement. “I couldn’t be more excited to join the Georgetown community.”Emhoff, an entertainment lawyer, was a partner at law firm DLA Piper, but took a leave of absence after Harris was named President-elect Joe Biden’s running mate. Emhoff would permanently leave his position at DLA Piper by Inauguration Day, the Biden-Harris campaign said last month.Emhoff’s first class will be “Entertainment Law Disputes” for the school’s upcoming spring semester.Jill Biden, the incoming first lady, previously said she plans to teach while she and her husband are in the White House. She was a full-time community college professor when Biden was vice president in the Obama Administration. Second lady Karen Pence teaches art part-time at an elementary school.– Rebecca MorinPresident Donald Trump sat down with a group of Republican attorneys general Thursday as they plotted a legal strategy in a long-shot bid to overturn Joe Biden's election.The president's lunch meeting guests included Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton, who filed a lawsuit this week asking the Supreme Court to invalidate the Electoral College votes of four pivotal states Biden won: Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.Few if any legal analysts expect the Supreme Court to take up the Texas case. But Trump has filed a legal brief seeking to join the lawsuit, and at least 17 GOP attorneys general have expressed support as well."The Supreme Court has a chance to save our Country from the greatest Election abuse in the history of the United States," Trump tweeted a few hours before seeing about a dozen Republican attorneys general at the White House.Supreme Court filings have included Trump's baseless allegations of election fraud and chicanery over mail-in balloting, claims that have been rejected by judges and bipartisan election officials across the country.The Texas claim before the Supreme Court is likely to meet a similar fate, analysts said. Some noted that Paxton, the attorney general in Texas, has been indicted on securities fraud allegations, and may be seeking to curry favor with Trump. Paxton has denied the charges."Paxton’s filing is both legally and factually weak, a document aimed more at appeasing the President (and perhaps a way to win a pardon) than to gain a victory at the Supreme Court," said Rick Hasen, a professor specializing in election law at University of California at Irvine School of Law.In addition to Paxton, Trump met at the White House with Republican AGs from Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, South Carolina and Utah.In a statement, the White House did not mention the Supreme Court case, saying only that Trump planned to "discuss issues important to their citizens and the country, and ways to continue to advance the shared federal-state partnership."– David JacksonPresident-elect Joe Biden officially named four members of his incoming administration Thursday, including appointing Susan Rice as director of the White House Domestic Policy Council.Biden also confirmed that he chose former Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack as secretary of Agriculture, Rep. Marcia Fudge of Ohio as secretary of Housing and Urban Development and House staffer Katherine Tai as U.S. Trade Representative.“The roles they will take on are where the rubber meets the road — where competent and crisis-tested governance can make a meaningful difference in people’s lives, enhancing the dignity, equity, security, and prosperity of the day-to-day lives of Americans,” Biden said in a statement.Rice, a former national security adviser and U.S. ambassador to the United Nations during the Obama administration, had been considered as Biden’s vice president and as secretary of State. But she faced the prospect of a contentious Senate confirmation hearing because of disputes about the deaths of U.S. officials in Libya.Biden’s choice of Rice illustrates, as with his choice of retired Gen. Lloyd Austin as secretary of Defense, how the former vice president wants domestic advisers experienced in foreign affairs.Vilsack has already served as secretary of agriculture and has been supported by farm-state lawmakers of both parties. Key advisers including Rep. Jim Clyburn, D-S.C., and the Congressional Black Caucus had advocated a Cabinet post for Fudge. And Tai is well-respected in Congress after serving as chief lawyer for trade on the House Ways and Means Committee and as chief counsel for China trade enforcement in the trade representative’s office.– Bart JansenPresident-elect Joe Biden is heading to Georgia on Tuesday to campaign for Democratic candidates in two runoff elections that will determine control of the Senate.Republican Sens. David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler are trying to defend their seats against Democratic challengers Jon Ossoff and the Rev. Raphael Warnock, respectively. Early voting starts Monday and ends Jan. 5.The Senate now has 50 Republicans and 48 members who caucus with Democrats. If both challengers won, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris could break ties in favor of Biden’s priorities.Georgia has favored Republicans statewide reliably for decades. But Biden beat President Donald Trump after making two campaign stops in the campaign’s final week and having former President Barack Obama visit, too.Biden’s transition announced Thursday he would campaign in Atlanta for the Democratic candidates.Vice President Mike Pence will hold a rally for Loeffler and Perdue on Thursday.– Bart JansenA push to block the Trump administration from selling billions of dollars in weapons to the United Arab Emirates failed in the Senate on Wednesday, despite bipartisan opposition to the transfer of high-tech military drones and stealth F-35 fighter jets to the Arab nation. Those items were part of a broader $23 billion weapons deal, which the administration is trying to finalize before President Donald Trump leaves office. The push to halt the weapons deal highlights an ongoing rift between Congress and the White House over the Trump administration's aggressive push to sell U.S.-made arms to its allies in the Middle East. Last year, the House and Senate passed a similar measure aimed at blocking an $8 billion weapons sale to Saudi Arabia and its neighbors, but Trump vetoed it.– Deirdre ShesgreenASBURY PARK, N.J. – Marion Thomas logged into a Zoom call Sunday to celebrate her 90th birthday with family members. Amid the familiar faces on the screen were three strangers, including a man wearing a cap and gown.“Today, I have the distinct honor of conferring your bachelor’s degree,” he said.The man was Georgian Court University president Joseph R. Marbach, the degree is in Interdisciplinary Studies, and the occasion came as a surprise to Thomas, a Brick, New Jersey resident who first enrolled at age 68 and attended for 10 years until her husband became ill in 2008.“It’s about time,” she quipped, provoking an eruption of laughter on the Zoom.Thomas is the oldest graduate in Georgian Court’s 112-year history, according to Sister Barbara Williams, university historian and former president. This is rarefied air; only a few instances of U.S. nonagenarians receiving bachelor’s degrees have been publicized.“It was just amazing to see and very emotional,” daughter Ellen Wilson said. “Now her life is complete.”Marion and John Thomas raised their six children in Bergen County, New Jersey, first in Emerson and then in Montvale. They later relocated to Warren in Somerset County before settling in Toms River. It was there, at age 68, that Marion had an epiphany.“She said one weekend, ‘Let’s go to an open house,’” Wilson recalled. “I thought she was talking about real estate.”Parents can't afford day care. Oregon voters are giving it to kids for free.Marion had come across a newspaper ad for Georgian Court, located in Lakewood Township, and it piqued her interest.I said, ‘Mom, that’s fabulous. Let’s go,’” Wilson said."I always wanted to go since I didn't after high school in New York,” Thomas said. “I was always busy with life, family, and husband."She attended full-time that first year before throttling back to part-time."I was nervous, but more excited going at 68 with young freshmen 18, 19 years old,” Thomas said. "I loved taking courses. Some of the professors were younger than me.”Back then there was no online instruction. She commuted to the campus and sat in classrooms.“Her older grandkids were in college sharing notes with her and laughing about campus life and saying, ‘Don’t party too hard,’” Wilson said.Education amid COVID-19:Reading scores drop, math scores low. Will high school seniors be ready for graduation?Thomas chipped away for a decade, until her husband was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease in 2008.“Even though she was just a few credits short, with her devotion to our dad, she stopped going to school,” Thomas said.John died in 2012. Later, when Marion moved to Hackensack Meridian Health Rehabilitation Center in Brick, Thomas came across her Georgian Court student ID card. She held onto it.Every now and then, she looked at the card and wondered how close her mom was to a degree.A few weeks ago, Wilson contacted Georgian Court to find out.“When they told me 113 credits I said, ‘Oh my gosh, she is just about finished,’” she said. “I thought for her 90th birthday it would be great for the college to acknowledge what she had accomplished.”Wilson was hoping for a letter or certificate of some kind. “When they sent back a note saying we’d like to award her a degree, we were just thrilled,” she said. “I was reading the text to my sisters and we were all crying.”Provost Janice Warner decided Thomas fulfilled the missing seven credits through “work and life experience,” particularly for her deep involvement with various Roman Catholic parishes in both volunteer and paid roles.“It’s not the first time this has happened,” Warner said. “You don’t want to do that for 20 credits, but for seven you can.”Warner participated in Sunday’s Zoom.“It was really wonderful, especially because it made her family so happy,” she said. “They’re really proud of her.”It was a full-circle moment.For decades Thomas, known as “Granya” to her 18 grandchildren and four great-grandkids, was the quintessential supporter — encouraging and applauding everyone in the family.“She had such a love of learning and always told all of us to believe in ourselves,” Wilson said. “Growing up it was always, ‘Do your best. There will be ups and downs, but keep going and eventually the rewards will come.’”Her kids decided to break the graduation news on the birthday Zoom, since her assisted-living facility is locked down due the pandemic. As a flourish, they sent a cake with Georgian Court’s logo on it.When Marbach, the university president, bid Granya “congratulations and welcome to the Class of 2020,” misty eyes filled the screen.“She is such an example, not only within our own family, but it’s such a great message to everyone — to be aspirational, even later in life,” Wilson said.Marbach invited Thomas to participate in the May 2021 commencement ceremony along with the other wintertime grads.  “I'm going to hug the person that hands me my diploma,” she said.Follow Asbury Park columnist Jerry Carino on Twitter: @NJHoopsHaven.In what officials called "a Christmas miracle," first responders spent six hours chiseling free a 4-year-old Texas boy who fell into a water well.The incident occurred Tuesday after 4 p.m. when authorities in Starr County received a call that the young boy had fallen into the well on a ranch property in Garceño.Fire and emergency officials from various agencies nearby responded as a team worked to get the boy out.According to tweets from the nearby city of Mission, the boy fell into a "8-inch wide pit," forcing rescue crews to rely on chisels to save him."So proud of our Mission firefighters & all 1st responders that rescued the child after 6 long hrs," the city said in another tweet, sharing video of the moment rescuers pulled the boy free.Robert Alvarez, the assistant fire chief of the Mission Fire Department, told USA TODAY that a team from his department trained in trench rescues was called to the scene to assist."The biggest thing that we were trying to make sure was that the operation was done safely," he said.The crew dug parallel to the boy into another hole in the ground, and when they were deep enough, the team began removing dirt from the exterior wall of the hole where the boy was.When the child was able to be freed, "everybody was relieved," Alvarez said.According to the Starr County Sheriff's Office's Facebook page, the boy was admitted to the hospital late Tuesday and was in stable condition as he underwent testing."Last night proved to be a testament of our community and neighboring communities’ unity and sincere concern for each other," Starr County Sheriff  Rene "Orta" Fuentes said in a Facebook post. "Through prayers and actions from everyone involved a little boy lives today."Follow USA TODAY's Ryan Miller on Twitter @RyanW_MillerAh, yes, Hanukkah. The Festival of Lights. The "Jewish Christmas." The holiday that Adam Sandler wrote a song about.To Jewish people, however, Hanukkah isn't actually all that religious of a holiday –though because of its proximity to Christmas, it's often assumed the most important Jewish holiday. It's not. Rosh Hashanah, Yom Kippur and Passover, for example, are more religiously observed, though Hanukkah certainly holds cultural significance.As a child, Hanukkah meant I could get presents just like my predominantly-Christian classmates and not feel left out. It also meant nodding politely (and still doing so) when someone said "Merry Christmas" come mid-to-late December, and trying to remember to say it back.This year my family and I are figuring out how to celebrate it during the coronavirus pandemic. Hint: We're doing a family Zoom.So, if Hanukkah isn't all that religious, what's all the fuss about?Disclaimer: Like any minority, I am but one of many members, and my experiences don't reflect that of all Jews.Known as the Festival of Lights, Hanukkah celebrates the rededication of the Second Temple in Jerusalem during the second century B.C. The event occurred when Jews rose up against Greek-Syrian rulers in the Maccabean Revolt and drove them out of Jerusalem, according to the History Channel.To mark their victory, Jews wanted to reclaim the temple and light its menorah, but only found enough pure olive oil for one day, according to Chabad.org. That one-day supply lasted eight and is considered a miracle in Jewish faith.Every year, Hanukkah begins on the 25th day of Kislev, a month in the Hebrew calendar. It lasts eight nights (yes, because of the oil), and this year it's from Dec. 10 to 18.Cool project:Storytellers to share joys, disappointments of holidaysNo. Well, maybe. I was sure it was true until my seventh grade Hebrew school class when someone told me it wasn't.The story of the oil lasting eight days goes back to ancient rabbis, who seemed to have made up the story while chatting about lighting candles during the holiday, reports The Washington Post. Some staunchly believe the oil story, though others are more inclined to focus on the messages/lessons the holiday teaches.Both are correct. In fact, there are many variations of how to spell the holiday's name in English, according to the Oxford Dictionaries and Merriam-Webster.The differences arise because the holiday's name comes from Hebrew, which doesn't use the Latin alphabet. According to Merriam-Webster, some sounds in Hebrew don't have exact matches for Latin letters, creating the multiple spellings.Today, the most common spelling is Hanukkah, but don't be surprised if you also see Chanukah or Hanukah, according to the two dictionaries.Check out this USA TODAY Life feature for a deeper dive on the spellings of Hanukkah.Is it Hanukkah or Chanukah? Why the Jewish holiday has multiple spellingsTo mark the holiday, Jews light one candle each evening on a nine-branched menorah. The ninth candle – the shamash, ("helper" or "attendant") – is used to light the other eight.The lit menorahs are displayed prominently, often in windows. Playing with tops called dreidels and exchanging gifts are other Hanukkah traditions to celebrate the holiday. Don't forget about gelt, chocolate coins adults give to children during Hanukkah (a symbol of the money that Jewish parents would give their children in lieu of gifts; "gelt" means money in Yiddish).Larger family gatherings during the pandemic are likely not happening this year (and are not recommended), meaning it will be up to individual households to figure out in-person gift exchanges and dreidel spinning. I know I'm hoping for gelt in the mail this season.No, at least not in the traditional religious sense. In fact, if you Google "Hanukkah not big deal," you'll find a plethora of articles that can tell you as much. That said, it's still meaningful for other reasons. When I asked fellow Jews what makes Hanukkah special on my Twitter feed last year, my followers talked about "latkes," the potato pancakes typically consumed on the holiday. (People eat doughnuts filled with jelly, or sufganiyot, too. Get it? Fried food.)Like other Jewish holidays, haunting Hebrew hymns are part of the occasion. "Rugrats," the Nickelodeon cartoon, aired a Hanukkah-themed episode in 1996 that holds up as educational, endearing and entertaining.And who can forget about the presents? Growing up it was fun to look forward to a different gift every night – some less expensive like pajamas and art supplies. The best (and probably worst year, for the adults in my family, anyway) was when my grandparents bought each of the dozen or so grandchildren Razor scooters. As I got older, the tradition shifted into one large gift for the period, though we always still light the candles.I'm looking forward to seeing many different sets of candles on Zoom.You can thank (or not thank) American Jews for that. It's debatable whether it was a direct response to Christmas or an effort to encourage young people to make time for synagogue, reports Vox. The Atlantic notes that the story of Hanukkah isn't even in the Torah, the Jewish Bible. For comparison's sake: This is the same bible that included my Torah portion, Bamidbar, which was literally just about counting tribes around a sacred tabernacle.Like most Jewish teachings, "it underscores one of the most significant themes in Jewish history: the struggle to practice Judaism when powerful forces seek to extinguish it," writes Lauren Markoe of the Religion News Service. Also: "It serves a particular purpose: an opportunity to negotiate the twin, competing pressures of ethnic tension and assimilation," writes Emma Green in The Atlantic (i.e. we are Maccabees, hear us roar).Anti-Semitism has remained more than prevalent, whether it be from celebrity messaging, physical violence and more. The country's only Anne Frank memorial in Idaho was vandalized just this week. Think about the shooting at the kosher supermarket in 2019 in New Jersey to the Tree of Life shooting in Pittsburgh in 2018. President Donald Trump signed an executive order last December designed to cut off aid to colleges that tolerate anti-Semitism, though some critics called it an effort to stifle free speech and criticism of Israel.I'm not a super religious person, but after re-educating myself about the holiday while researching this article, I will be proud to light the candles to remind myself about the most important part of the holiday to me: fighting for the right to exist.Hopefully in 2021, that will involve my family and me celebrating (and fighting) together.Editor's note: This is an updated version of last year's Hanukkah story.Contributing: Ryan W. Miller and David Jackson, USA TODAYIf you're thinking ahead:How to Passover in quarantine: Everything you need to know about hosting a (virtual) sederHow that went for my family this year:Conversational chaos, prayers and hope: My Passover seder on Zoom in the time of coronavirusThe safety and effectiveness of the nation's first COVID-19 vaccine is taking center stage Thursday as a critical committee spends the day vetting and then voting on whether to recommend its general use by the American public.   The 17-member independent Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee is reviewing and discussing data from Pfizer and German startup BioNTech on their vaccine, called BNT162b2. The daylong, livestreamed meeting comes a day after the nation set a new daily record for COVID-19 deaths, topping 3,000, according to Johns Hopkins University data.Such meetings are always accessible to the public, but Thursday's is likely to be one of the most-watched ever. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration published briefing documents in advance, and the public has an opportunity to submit questions. A one-hour public comment period also will be held during the meeting, said Norman Baylor,CEO of Biologics Consulting and former director of the FDA's Office of Vaccines Research and Review."It's a very transparent process," he said.That process will end around 5:15 p.m. when VRBPAC (pronounced verb-pack) is expected to vote to recommend the FDA authorize the Pfizer vaccine, which could come anytime after VRBPAC's decision.It's not possible to predict with certainty what that vote will be, Baylor said. But judging from FDA's overview of the vaccine's safety and effectiveness published Tuesday and the fact that Pfizer and BioNTech have met all the criteria the FDA established for an authorized vaccine, the outlook is good. "Based on that information, one could predict that if there are no untoward scenarios that come up, authorization could be relatively soon," he said.  The companies are requesting an “emergency use authorization,” a more rapid overview just shy of a full vaccine approval. While they have compiled as much short-term safety and effectiveness data as is typical with any vaccine, the process has been compressed, and it's not clear how long the vaccine will continue to be effective. Trading COVID-19 vaccines. Regular deliveries. Tracking doses: What we know about Operation Warp Speed distribution process.If the committee recommends authorization, the FDA is expected to sign off on the vaccine, possibly as soon as Thursday night, setting the stage for the first doses to be distributed and administered across all 50 states.Watching for any adverse reactions among people who’ve gotten the vaccine is a major concern. During the morning portion of the meeting, Dr. Nancy Messonnier of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention outlined the multiple systems that will be monitoring possible problems. New to the vaccine world is V-SAFE, a smartphone-based after-vaccination health checker that people who get the COVID-19 vaccine can sign up for if they choose.It will send text messages and web surveys to those who do and feed information about any health problems directly back to CDC. Anyone who reports a medically significant adverse event will get a telephone call from a CDC staffer to find out more.Another monitoring system is VAERS, the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System. It's a joint CDC and FDA system established in 1990 and collects reports about adverse events from vaccines from health care professionals, vaccine manufacturers and the public.Any adverse events that are unexpected, appear to happen more often than expected or have unusual patterns are followed up with specific studies.The Department of Defense also has its own system for following adverse events among its personnel, as does the Indian Health Service.Finally, there's the Vaccine Safety Datalink, a network of nine large integrated health care organizations across the United States that conduct active surveillance and research on vaccine side effects. Because these health systems have access to their members’ medical records, they can often see patterns that might not immediately be visible to other networks.The group spent the last session before lunch discussing the ethics of how to deal with trial participants who received a placebo rather than an active vaccine.So far, all the COVID-19 vaccine trials have provided half of their participants an active vaccine and half a placebo or a vaccine against another condition.When people signed onto the Pfizer trial, they agreed to remain “blinded” for two years, not knowing whether they received the active vaccine or placebo.But once there is a safe, effective vaccine reaching the public, experts are concerned about the ethics of leaving half the volunteers unprotected. They also are worried that many participants who believe they got the placebo because they did not react to their shots will drop out of the trial, compromising its longer-term results.To avoid that, Dr. Steven Goodman, an associate dean and professor of medicine at the Stanford University School of Medicine, urged the group to consider changing the trial design.He suggested that companies not tell trial participants whether they received vaccine or placebo earlier in the trial but give them whichever they didn’t get before they would normally become eligible for the vaccine.That way, they would remain “blinded” to which arm of the study they were in, maintaining the integrity of the scientific study, Goodman said.He also suggested putting them at the head of the line among their peers so that a healthy young person, who would typically not be eligible to get a vaccine until April or May, would not jump ahead of an older person at high risk of serious COVID-19 disease. Instead, they would be among the first of the young, healthy people to be offered a vaccine.That would remove the incentive they would otherwise have to drop out of the trial, Goodman said, and provide them a reward of sorts for volunteering to help with the research.This “deferred randomization” design, he argued, requires ethical and scientific compromise, but is fair and justifiable.At a certain point, he said, maybe in about a year when vaccines are widely available, trials will no longer be ethically able to justify including a placebo group but will have to compare vaccines against each other.In the early afternoon, the committee heard from members of the public, including  speakers who expressed concern that the trials hadn’t yet included children, pregnant or nursing women, or large numbers of people with HIV and other immunocompromising conditions – all groups Pfizer has promised to study in the future.Several questioned the speed of the research and others demanded more Black people and senior citizens be included in the research before the vaccine is authorized. They also asked for continued research after the vaccine is authorized, which the company and the government plan to do.Vaccine hesitancy also came up a number of times. Dr. Peter Lurie, president of the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer advocacy organization, told committee members he was impressed by the apparent safety and effectiveness of the vaccine and urged them to sign off on it.But he said he is worried that not enough public attention has be directed to the vaccine’s side effects, which appear to be extensive, including pain at the injection site, headaches, fever, muscles aches and chills.“We are already facing significant levels of vaccine hesitancy,” he said, “and if patients are not forewarned about these potential events, word will surely spread rapidly potentially exacerbating that hesitancy problem.”Lurie, a former FDA associate commissioner, also expressed concern about trial participants who received a placebo instead of an active vaccine.“No (study) subject who has put their body on the line in a vaccine study should be at a disadvantage in terms of vaccine accessibility as a result of their participation,” he said, adding that he supports the idea of vaccinating placebo recipients as soon as their peer group becomes eligible.“I believe this will facilitate the collection of essential data while honoring the contributions of the tens of thousands of people whose altruistic efforts have brought us to where we are today,” he said.Evan Fein, a New Yorker who participated in an early trial of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, described his experience with the vaccine, hoping, he said, to reassure people of its safety.He had passing chills, fever and arm pain, he said, but no lasting effects. “It’s been more than five months now since my first shot, and I can happily report that there were none,” Fein said.This vaccine has not been rushed, he said; rather, other medical innovations move too slowly. “Pfizer has just set the gold standard for future clinical trials. Let’s live up to that,” Fein said.He urged the panel to recommend authorizing the vaccine.“The skepticism of some does not justify delay for others who desperately want to take it,” he said. “The burden of proof is on those who don’t want to authorize the vaccine. Absent a compelling reason not to authorize it, it is simple immoral and unethical to deny the vaccine to healthcare workers and first responders who want it.”After the public presentations, Pfizer and BioNTech executives present data on their vaccine, BNT162b2, and the FDA followed with its findings.The New England Journal of Medicine on Thursday published a peer-reviewed version of the data from the late-stage Pfizer/BioNTech trial. The study confirmed numbers that the companies and the FDA have already made public and found that the vaccine was safe and highly effective."The results demonstrate that Covid-19 can be prevented by immunization, provide proof of concept that RNA-based vaccines are a promising new approach for protecting humans against infectious diseases, and demonstrate the speed with which an RNA-based vaccine can be developed with a sufficient investment of resources," the study concluded.Once the presentations are completed, the committee has two hours scheduled for discussion before it votes. During the discussion, Dr. Paul Offit, director of the Vaccine Education Center at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, raised concerns about the allergic reactions seen in two British people who got a shot on Tuesday, the first day the shot was available, and had a strong allergic reaction.He said he is not personally concerned about the safety of the vaccine and supports authorization, but wants the companies to run a separate study of people with egg or peanut allergies to reassure them that the vaccine is safe. “This issue is not going to die until we have better data,” Offit said. He also pointed out that it will be difficult for people with severe allergies to know if they are allergic the ingredients in the vaccine. People who are allergic to any of its ingredients have been told to avoid vaccination, he said, but “if you look at the components of that vaccine, which has probably the longest chemical name of any vaccine I’ve ever seen, nobody’s going to look at that name and say “I’m allergic to that.” This is a developing story. Check back for updates.Pfizer's coronavirus vaccine candidate stood poised to become the first to earn U.S. Food and Drug Administration emergency authorization, possibly as soon as today.The 17-member independent Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee is meeting now to review and discuss data from Pfizer and German startup BioNTech on their vaccine, then vote on whether the FDA should authorize it.The companies are requesting an “emergency use authorization,” shy of a full approval. While they have compiled as much short-term safety and effectiveness data as is typical with any vaccine, the process has been compressed. But corners, FDA says, have not been cut.The U.S. reported more than 3,000 COVID-19 deaths for the first time Wednesday, a single-day toll worse than 9/11. The Johns Hopkins University data dashboard reported 3,124 deaths, breaking a record of 2,885 set just last week. New infections are also booming, and across the nation hospitals are running out of beds, prompting stay-at-home orders in some places and mask mandates in 38 states.Other news you need to know today:📈 Today's numbers: The U.S. has reported more than 15.4 million cases and 290,000 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University data. The global totals: 69 million cases and more than 1.5 million deaths.📰 What we're reading: It may not have started here, but the novel coronavirus became a US tragedy. In the earliest days of a historic pandemic, the virus had unfettered access into and throughout the United States.This file will be updated throughout the day. For updates in your inbox, subscribe to The Daily Briefing newsletter.A county in Hawaii became the United States' final county to have a resident test positive for COVID-19, the Maui News reported Thursday. An adult resident of Kalaupapa, Hawaii, has become the first person to contract COVID-19 in Kalawao County, reportedly the last county in the U.S. without a case in eight months of the pandemic, according to the Hawaii Department of Health, the Maui News said.The person received a positive test result after returning on a local flight to Kalaupapa and is now in self-isolation with no symptoms. An online travel agency accused of leaving travelers stranded on vacations at the beginning of the pandemic has agreed to pay back more than $550,000 in a civil settlement in Massachusetts.Commonwealth Attorney General Maura Healey announced Florida-based BookIt.com and its CEO Arthur Paul Finlaw will reimburse 539 Massachusetts consumers for canceled trips.“Unfortunately, we’ve seen travel companies take advantage of the COVID-19 crisis by cheating consumers and pocketing payments for canceled trips,” Healey said in Wednesday’s announcement of the settlement over alleged unfair and deceptive acts.Massachusetts is the first to win a substantial legal action against BookIt after it sued the company in June. Consumer protection officials there say they received more than 60 complaints about the single company.– Nick PenzenstadlerFor the first time since the coronavirus pandemic began, a bipartisan group of governors has vowed to put politics aside to issue a comprehensive plan to defeat COVID-19 across state lines. The plan focuses on five key pillars as part of an effective response to the pandemic: testing, contact tracing, public health and social measures, vaccines and treatments, and common measures of success.The call to action was developed and released by the COVID Collaborative, a national assembly that has brought together leading experts and institutions across health, education and the economy to support state and local leaders. As part of the plan, the National Governors Association and Duke-Margolis Center for Health Policy released a review of state vaccine distribution plans that highlight challenges and strategies to help states refine their efforts.– Adrianna RodriguezEllen DeGeneres has tested positive for COVID-19 but is "feeling fine right now," she announced Thursday. Production on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" has been paused until January, a Telepictures spokesperson confirmed to USA TODAY. The television host, 62, said in a tweet that "anyone who has been in close contact with me has been notified, and I am following all proper CDC guidelines." In October, "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" became one of the first TV productions to return to inviting a limited number of in-studio audience members. On Oct. 28, 40 fans attended the "Ellen" taping in person in a studio generally holds about 300."I'll see you all again after the holidays," DeGeneres said. "Please stay healthy and safe."– Hannah YasharoffU.S. production of N95 masks will reach 180 million per month in January, up from 20 million a year ago, federal officials said Thursday. About 150 million of the U.S.-made masks are being produced now, senior Health and Human Services officials said in a press call."Anyone can find a disgruntled nurse on the street to talk about someone not getting an N95 mask. We can’t account for that," said Paul Mango, Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy at HHS. "We are in a significantly better position than we’ve ever been, and a dramatically better position than we were in in January 2020."Before the pandemic, the nation’s Strategic National Stockpile, which harbors emergency medical supplies, contained less than 13 million N95 masks, said Brigadier General David Sanford, director of the Supply Chain Task Force. It now contains "15 times that number of masks," between the stockpile and FEMA counterparts, Sanford said.– Grace HauckThe chairman of a House subcommittee is demanding more information after a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention scientist told the committee this week that she was ordered to destroy an email regarding attempts by political appointees to interfere with the publication of weekly CDC reports.Panel Chairman Rep. James Clyburn revealed the information in a letter sent to CDC Director Robert Redfield and HHS Secretary Alex Azar on Thursday seeking to interview Redfield about the allegation.Dr. Charlotte Kent, chief of the Scientific Publications Branch and editor-in-chief of the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report at the CDC, told the committee she was instructed to delete an Aug. 8 email sent by HHS senior adviser Dr. Paul Alexander, and that she understood the direction came from Redfield, according to the letter.In the email, Alexander demanded that the CDC insert new language in a previously published scientific report on coronavirus risks to children or "pull it down and stop all reports immediately," according to the letter. An HHS spokesperson said in a statement Thursday that the subcommittee’s “characterization of the conversation with Dr. Kent is irresponsible” and that releasing the full transcript of Kent's testimony would show no political interference. Redfield said in a statement that he had instructed CDC staff to ignore Alexander’s email and was “fully committed to maintaining the independence of the MMWR.”– Grace HauckThe safety and effectiveness of the nation's first COVID-19 vaccine is taking center stage today as a critical committee vets and votes on whether to allow its general use by the American public. The 17-member independent Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee is meeting to discuss data from Pfizer and German startup BioNTech on their vaccine, BNT162b2. The daylong, live-streamed meeting is expected to end with a vote recommending the FDA authorize the Pfizer vaccine, which could come within hours or days."If there are no untoward scenarios that come up, authorization could be relatively soon," said Norman Baylor, former director of FDA's Office of Vaccines Research and Review.– Elizabeth Weise and Karen WeintraubHours after Margaret Keenan, a 90-year-old grandmother from the United Kingdom, became the first person to get the COVID-19 vaccine, anti-vaxxers heated up social media with claims that Keenan didn’t exist, that she was dead or that she was part of a Bill Gates scheme to implant microchips.Researchers warn this is just the beginning of viral hoaxes on social media that will feed off the unknowns of the virus and the vaccines to undercut public trust in the coming wave of immunizations.“I am deeply concerned," said Emerson Brooking, resident fellow at the Atlantic Council's Digital Forensic Research Lab. "The same information campaign which initially downplayed the severity of COVID-19, downplayed the number of cases, then downplayed the number of deaths is now shifting to focus on the vaccine.”People who get one of the new COVID-19 vaccines will be expected to get their second shot 21 or 28 days after the first one, depending on the manufacturer. But what happens if someone misses that deadline by a day, a week or even longer?Moncef Slaoui, co-leader of Operation Warp Speed, the federal government's vaccine development effort, says that from a scientific perspective, such precision is not that important and the immune system generally responds better when there's a wider gap between vaccinations. But during a pandemic, when the risk of infection is high, he noted that people are better off getting the second shot – and being fully protected – according to the authorized schedule."If there is significant transmission of disease, as is the case here, we should absolutely get the second dose exactly as has been studied," he said.– Karen WeintraubStates are prioritizing frontline health workers and other vulnerable populations as the first to be immunized, but remaining unclear is the place in line for college students. The overwhelming majority of young adults are not among the nation's most vulnerable. But students fueled some of the nation's top outbreaks this fall, and they're expected to return to campuses early in 2021. Will they — can they — be required to get the vaccine once it's readily available? And why are college students different than schoolchildren? It's complicated, education experts across the country say — and we're a long way from answers. Read more here.– Lindsay SchnellMillions of health care workers are slated to receive the first batch of potentially lifesaving COVID-19 vaccines by the end of this month. But not all of them want to be first in line. Only one-third of a panel of 13,000 nurses said they would voluntarily take a vaccine, another third said they wouldn’t and the rest said they were unsure, according to a late October survey by the American Nurses Association.“I actually even hate getting a flu shot, but I’ve had to get one every year since I became a nurse," said Nina Siegrist, a registered nurse with Hospice of the Piedmont in Charlottesville, Virginia. "If my medical director says, ‘Listen, all hospice clinicians are going to get vaccinated,’ then I’ll get vaccinated. But I definitely want to read the details on the clinical trials first.”– Christine Vestal, StatelineThe U.S. reported a record 3,124 deaths Wednesday, meaning about 130 people died of the virus every hour or one died every 28 seconds. That's far worse than any day of the spring or summer surges. And another dark record was broken – most deaths over a seven-day period. The 15,927 deaths equals 95 per hour, or one death every 38 seconds, breaking a record set in April.At the current pace, the U.S. death toll from the entire pandemic could reach 300,000 in just a few days.The U.S. also reported 227,828 new coronavirus cases Wednesday, the second-worst day on record. And the number of infections in a week set a record of almost 1.5 million, 145 new cases per minute.Wednesday also saw a record in current hospitalizations, with 106,688. Hospitalizations never reached 60,000 at the peak of the spring or summer virus surges.– Mike StuckaContributing: The Associated PressWASHINGTON – Congressional investigators say Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Robert Redfield may have directed officials to delete a contentious email sent by a Trump appointee that demanded the health agency halt weekly COVID-19 mortality reports that the official called CDC “hit pieces on the administration.”The revelation came from Dr. Charlotte Kent, the head of the scientific publications branch and editor of the agency’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR), after she testified Monday behind closed doors before the House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis. It comes as the U.S. on Wednesday reported more than 3,000 COVID-19 deaths for the first time, a single-day toll worse than 9/11. New infections are also booming, leaving hospitals across the nation with bed shortages and prompting stay-at-home orders in some places and mask mandates in 38 states.Kent said she was told to delete a four-page email by a colleague who said the direction came from Redfield, which the committee says could violate a federal law that is punishable by up to three years in prison.The email was sent by Paul Alexander, who at the time of the Aug. 8 email was the scientific adviser to Health and Human Services spokesman Michael Caputo. The email includes misspellings, demands and accusations that the CDC was aiming to hurt Trump with its reporting. Both Alexander and Caputo have since left their roles in the department.“This is designed to hurt this Presidnet for their reasons which I am not interested in. I am intersted in this or any President being served fairly and that tax payers money not be used for political reasons,” Alexander wrote in the 11:42 p.m. email, which was obtained by Politico. “They CDC, work for him. The public wants honesty and fair reporting so that they can be informed, not to be decieved.” The email demands that the weekly reports be halted unless Alexander approves of them first. Alexander goes through several MMWR articles on the ability of children to get and spread COVID-19 and accuses the CDC of bias and misleading Americans with data."The reports must be read by someone outside of CDC like myself, and we cannot allow the reporting to go on as it has been, for it is outrageous. Its lunacy," he argued in the email, according to Politico. "They may say ‘it’s the data’; I agree on one level, but they are constantly reporting incompletely and writing in a manner to make the nation run and dig a hole and climb inside with their children for 10 years."Kent told the committee, “I was instructed to delete the email,” and explained that when she went to look for the memo, it had already been removed from her inbox. “I went to look for it after I had been told to delete it, and it was already gone,” she said, according to the committee.A national tragedy:How the US failed to meet the challenge of COVID-19Redfield, in a statement, responded to Kent's claims about the email, which he was copied on."Regarding the email in question, I instructed CDC staff to ignore Dr. Alexander’s comments," he said. "As I testified before Congress, I am fully committed to maintaining the independence of the MMWR, and I stand by that statement."The Department of Health and Human Services refuted the thrust of the committee's findings and in a statement said the "characterization of the conversation with Dr. Kent is irresponsible." "We urge the Subcommittee to release the transcript in full which will show that during her testimony Dr. Kent repeatedly said there was no political interference in the MMWR process," the agency said in a statement before stating the committee is "not operating in good faith."Kent also told lawmakers the CDC delayed publication of a study until after Redfield testified over the summer during a hearing where he argued schools should reopen. About 15 minutes after the conclusion of the hearing, the study was released and showed the virus spread at a kids summer camp in Georgia, the committee said.“I am deeply concerned that the Trump Administration’s political meddling with the nation’s coronavirus response has put American lives at greater risk, and that Administration officials may have taken steps to conceal and destroy evidence of this dangerous conduct,” said Rep. James Clyburn, who chairs the committee.The committee has requested a transcribed interview with Redfield on Dec. 17 and threatened to issue subpoenas if HHS did not turn over documents by Tuesday.A team of beaked whale researchers are “highly confident” that they have likely identified a new species of whale off Mexico’s western coast.The trio of researchers — Gustavo Hinojosa, Jay Barlow and Elizabeth Henderson — working in conjunction with the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society say they detected a rare type of beaked whale first linked to an “unidentified acoustic signal” spotted by the remote San Benito Islands.That sound may have likely been that of the Perrin’s beaked whale, a species of beaked whale that resides in deep, remote waters and is distinguished by its lack of teeth. It has never been seen before.But photographs, videos and more acoustic signals later gathered by the team and Sea Shepherd workers ended up confirming the evidence of a brand new type of beaked whale.The team told Reuters they did not confirm the possibility of a new whale until further inspecting photographic evidence taken of the whales. According to Wildwhales.org, male beaked whales usually only have one or two teeth in their lower jaw. This particular type of beaked whale had unusual teeth placement, researcher Jay Barlow told Reuters.Further, per a statement from the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, the acoustic signals were not any sound “known to science.”Only environmental genetic sampling, in which the scientists test water samples for possible DNA, can confirm the existence of a new whale.If, indeed, it is a new type of whale, it will be only the 24th species of beaked whale ever discovered.“We saw something new,” Barlow said in a statement. “Something that was not expected in this area, something that doesn’t match, either visually or acoustically, anything that is known to exist. It just sends chills up and down my spine when I think that we might have accomplished what most people would say was truly impossible."Follow Joshua Bote on Twitter: @joshua_bote.Apart from reorganizing the government’s response to the catastrophic coronavirus pandemic, the Justice Department has loomed as the most challenging reclamation project for the incoming Biden administration.Yet the immediate job of selecting a nominee for attorney general suddenly became more delicate late Wednesday when President-elect Joe Biden’s son disclosed that the Justice Department is in the midst of an investigation into his taxes.While no criminal charges have been filed and Hunter Biden maintains that he has done nothing wrong, the revelation represents an unexpected first test for the president-elect and his nominee to follow through on a pledge to restore the department's long-guarded institutional independence from the White House.More:Hunter Biden's taxes under investigation by US attorney's office in DelawarePresident Donald Trump's very public efforts to bend the department to his will – variously calling on Attorney General William Barr to prosecute his political enemies or endorse unsubstantiated claims of election fraud – made the Justice Department a referendum on his failed bid for second term.Now, analysts say, there is increased urgency for Biden to stake out an unyielding relationship between the Justice Department and the White House."What Joe Biden needs to do is send a message that the administration is going back to way things worked before (Trump)," said Donald Ayer, a former deputy attorney general in the George H.W. Bush administration. "The Hunter Biden situation should be part of the larger theme of restoring justice. You do that by saying that Hunter Biden is going to be handled like anybody else, regardless of his name."Richard Painter, chief ethics lawyer in the George W. Bush administration, said Biden could benefit by immediately recommending that a special counsel make any future decisions involving his son, distancing the White House and his future attorney general from claims of favoritism that have shadowed the current administration.The same special counsel, Painter said, could also weigh whether any review of the past administration was warranted."This is a golden opportunity, actually, for Joe Biden to demonstrate that partisan politics will not have a role in these kinds of decisions," Painter said. "Obviously, you never want to see a family member in trouble, but this is way for Joe Biden to say, 'I'm not the one who should be making any decisions (related to his son's case) and neither should anyone, including the attorney general, who reports to me.' "Aside from what Hunter Biden acknowledged Wednesday, the scope and the status of the inquiry was not immediately clear.The investigation was launched in 2018, according to a person familiar with the matter, and has continued since then. The inquiry pre-dates Barr, who was confirmed by the Senate in February 2019. But the attorney general has been aware of the investigation as it has progressed, including through the campaign season, said the person who is not authorized to comment publicly.   "I learned (Tuesday) for the first time that the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Delaware advised my legal counsel ... that they are investigating my tax affairs," he said in a brief statement. "I take this matter very seriously, but I am confident that a professional and objective review of these matters will demonstrate that I handled my affairs legally and appropriately, including with the benefit of professional tax advisors."The statement was accompanied by remarks from the Biden transition team conveying the president-elect's support while noting that the younger Biden had been the target of "vicious personal attacks" during the campaign.'Riding a tiger':William Barr's politically charged tenure puts DOJ on ballot with TrumpIndeed, Trump and his surrogates raised repeated questions about Hunter Biden's business dealings in China and Ukraine throughout the campaign and made unsubstantiated claims alleging that then-Vice President Biden used his position to assist those efforts. Joe Biden has rejected those assertions, casting them as attempts to smear his family and candidacy as the Democratic nominee.Noting the lack of information about the recently disclosed investigation, Norman Eisen, former ethics counsel for President Barack Obama, cautioned against an immediate decision on the appointment of a special counsel or a recusal for an incoming attorney general.Biden is set to name a nominee, possibly next week. Among those who have emerged as potential candidates include Alabama Sen. Doug Jones, former Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick, former deputy attorney general Sally Yates and federal appeals court Judge Merrick Garland.“When I was the White House ethics counselor, the best practice is to make these decisions based on as complete information as possible," Eisen said. "So that’s a decision that the (incoming) attorney general will need to make in consultation with his senior staff, including his ethics advisers based on all the facts and circumstances.''Biden administration Justice officials should first make an independent assessment of whether the investigation of Hunter Biden is “a politically motivated act of revenge and malice that should be thrown out or not,” Eisen said, noting Barr’s past intervention in cases that were of intense political interest to Trump.Notably, Barr recommended a lighter punishment for longtime Trump adviser Roger Stone, whose sentence was subsequently commuted by the president; he also sought to drop the prosecution of former national security adviser Michael Flynn, who was recently pardoned.More:1,600 former Justice Department lawyers accuse Barr of using DOJ to help Trump in electionTrump, however, has since turned on Barr for not pursuing prosecutions aimed at propping up his failed candidacy, and he has more recently weighed firing the attorney general for not supporting claims of election fraud.“I hope that independent decisionmakers in the new administration will take a very hard look at this (Hunter Biden inquiry) given that larger pattern," Eisen said. "There is ample cause for skepticism. If this turns out to be the latest abuse of power by the president, the attorney general and those around them, that would not turn out to be a very good predicate for a special counsel investigation.”The Biden transition team did not immediately respond to questions about how its Justice Department would handle the inquiry. But Michael Frisch, ethics counsel at Georgetown Law, said it would be appropriate for Biden’s incoming attorney general to move quickly with a recusal to avoid even the perception of political influence.“Obviously, if DOJ is conducting an investigation, President Biden should have no influence over how it goes forward,” Frisch said. “The independence of DOJ would indicate that it would proceed on its merits without intervention from the executive. That’s what one would expect as a matter of professional ethics.“You would not want to go nowhere near that investigation.”Dec. 10 (UPI) -- Rudy Giuliani, President Donald Trump's personal attorney, tweeted Thursday that he's been released from a Washington, D.C., hospital after treatment for COVID-19."My treatment by the nurses and staff at Georgetown Med Star Hospital was miraculous," Giuliani tweeted Thursday. "I walked in with serious symptoms. I walked out better than ever."He thanked an "all-star" team of doctors, including White House physician Dr. Sean Conley, as well as Trump, for being a "great president" and "a good friend."Speaking to ABC Radio on Wednesday, Giuliani said he received some of the same treatments Trump did when he was hospitalized with COVID-19 in October. Trump received supplemental oxygen, the antiviral remdesivir and an experimental antibody treatment called regeneron."If it wasn't me, I wouldn't have been put in a hospital, frankly," Giuliani told the radio network. "Sometimes when you're a celebrity they're worried if something happens to you. They're going to examine it more carefully and do everything right."Giuliani's diagnosis came days after his son, Andrew Giuliani, tested positive for the virus.In recent weeks, Giuliani had been traveling to various states to represent Trump in his effort to have the presidential election results tossed. State legislatures in Arizona and Michigan announced earlier this week they would shut down work for a week after several members came into contact with Giuliani.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- The number of U.S. workers filing new claims for unemployment benefits was substantially higher on Thursday than most experts predicted.The department said the unemployment rate for last week was 3.9%.Thursday's report showed the most claims for a single week since the middle of September.The department said the four-week moving average is 776,000 and there were 5.76 million continuing unemployment claims -- an increase of 230,000 -- for the week ending Nov. 28. Continuing claims lag initial claims by a week.The new jobless figures are the first since the department reported last week that the U.S. economy added 245,000 jobs during the month of November, which was about half what analysts expected.The weekly unemployment assessment came as Congress has made some progress toward a new round of stimulus for businesses and out-of-work Americans, but remains mired in stalemate.A number of House and Senate lawmakers supported the proposal, but the Trump administration countered on Tuesday with a $916 billion proposal that cut the unemployment aid to $40 billion. Democratic lawmakers called that proposal a non-starter because of the stripping of the jobless aid.The House passed a $2 trillion stimulus package in May, which the Senate ignored before submitting a slimmed down proposal in October.Another key issue in negotiations is more direct stimulus for Americans, similar to the $1,200 payments sent through the CARES Act in the spring. House Democrats have called for another $1,200 payment, but Republicans and President Donald Trump have balked at that amount and support a payment about half that amount.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- A group of demonstrators descended upon the Department of Justice in Washington, D.C., on Thursday, to protest the U.S. government's resumption of federal execution after a 17-year hiatus.Death Penalty Action, an anti-death penalty group, organized the midday demonstration, along with two others scheduled to take place around the time of Bernard's execution later in the day."Now it really is up to the President," DPA Director Abraham Bonowitz said in a release announcing the protests. "His remaining handlers are loyalists who don't want him to have to deal with something he doesn't like. The clemency recommendation is creating a storm of people tweeting at him and calling on him to do the right thing. The world is watching."Allison Cohen, a spokeswoman for DPA, said up to 20 people attended Thursday's demonstration, with participation by Vote Common Good, Red Letter Christians, Pax Christie USA and the Franciscan Action Network, among others. Clergy members and family members of murder victims also were in attendance.The previous federal execution was that of Gulf War veteran Louis Jones Jr. in March 2003 for the rape and murder of a fellow soldier, Pvt. Tracie McBride in 1995.Jones' was the third federal execution in 40 years. In 2014, former President Barack Obama ordered then-Attorney General Eric Holder to review the use of the death penalty in the United States, effectively implementing a moratorium on executions.Another five have been scheduled before President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration: Bernard on Thursday, Alfred Bourgeois on Friday, Lisa Montgomery on Jan. 12, Corey Johnson on Jan. 14 and Dustin Higgs on Jan. 15.Hall's November execution was the first to happen during the transition of a presidency since 1880 under the administration of President Grover Cleveland.She also noted that if all remaining executions go forward, Trump will have executed more federal death row inmates than any other president since Dwight Eisenhower in the 1950s.The Eisenhower administration executed 10 federal inmates -- including the Rosenbergs, who were convicted of espionage -- over the course of his eight-year presidency."This is politically motivated and it's ugly," Cohen said.DPA's evening vigils are scheduled to begin around 5:30 p.m. EST in the Black Lives Matter Plaza in Washington, D.C., and near the U.S. Penitentiary in Terre Haute, Ind., the location of Bernard's execution.
Dec. 10 (UPI) -- President-elect Joe Biden on Thursday announced his selection of Susan Rice to lead the White House Domestic Policy Council and Denis McDonough as Veterans Affairs secretary.After serving as ambassador from 2009 to 2013, Rice was tapped as national security adviser, a position she held until 2017.She was considered as a possible vice presidential running mate this year for Biden and was floated as a possible secretary of state before Antony Blinken was ultimately nominated, The Washington Post reported.McDonough's nomination as secretary of veterans affairs will require Senate confirmation.He also has deep ties to the to Obama-Biden Administration, serving as White House chief of staff, deputy national security adviser and chief of staff of the National Security Council.Biden on Thursday also officially announced his choice of Tom Vilsack, a former Iowa governor, to return as agriculture secretary; Ohio Rep. Marcia Fudge for housing and urban development secretary; and attorney Katherine Tai for U.S. trade representative.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- Hospital emergency room visits related to child abuse and neglect declined by more than half nationally during the first nine months of 2020, compared with the same period in 2019, according to a report released Thursday by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.CDC researchers said this expected increase in abuse was due to "heightened levels of stress from school closures, increased parental childcare and schooling responsibilities and significant job and income losses," among other factors."These trends are not surprising given the lack of supports and resources experienced by families during the pandemic," Samantha M. Brown, who has researched child abuse during the pandemic, told UPI."Since children were not regularly interacting with school or other health care professionals during the stay-at-home restrictions, opportunities to detect early warning signs of maltreatment may have been missed," said Brown, an assistant professor of social work at Colorado State University who was not part of the CDC analysis.However, since the start of 2020, the number of official reports of abuse and neglect made to child protection agencies has fallen by as much as 70%, according to the CDC."The pandemic has ... disrupted the process of official reporting of suspected child abuse and neglect due to decreased in-person contact between children and mandated reporters, such as teachers," agency researchers wrote in a press release.Researchers compared trends at these facilities for 2020, through early September, to those for the same period in 2019.This year, ER visits related to child abuse and neglect peaked nationally in early March, just before the Trump administration declared a national state of emergency because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the CDC data showed.They only began to approach 2019 levels over the summer, when lockdown restrictions meant to reduce spread of the virus -- including business closures and bans on large gatherings -- began to be relaxed in many parts of the country, the agency found.Still, although there were fewer ER visits overall, the proportion of visits attributed to child abuse and neglect actually increased -- by about 60% -- in 2020, compared with 2019, the CDC said.This indicates that healthcare-seeking patterns shifted during the pandemic, with ER visits for other causes declining more than those for child abuse and neglect, according to the agency."Evidence from past public health threats and economic recessions show harmful effects on the lives of children and families due in part to school closures, increased social isolation and unemployment," Brown told UPI."Disruption to caregivers' daily schedules, social systems, and limited reprieve from care-taking responsibilities place families at heightened risk of stress," she said.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- European Union regulatory documents relating to the COVID-19 vaccine candidate made by Pfizer were "unlawfully accessed" by hackers, the pharma company's German biotech partner says.Pfizer and BioNTech are seeking EU approval for their BNT162b2 coronavirus vaccine candidate, which this week won approvals for use in Britain and Canada."At this time, we await further information about EMA's investigation and will respond appropriately and in accordance with EU law," BioNTech said in a statement late Wednesday. "EMA has assured us that the cyber attack will have no impact on the timeline for its review."The EMA said only that it had been the subject of a cyberattack.BioNTech said the hacked documents had been stored on an EMA server and stressed that no BioNTech or Pfizer systems were breached and no data about the volunteers involved in clinical trials for the vaccine have been compromised."Our focus remains steadfast on working in close partnership with governments and regulators to bring our COVID-19 vaccine to people around the globe as safely and as efficiently as possible to help bring an end to this devastating pandemic," BioNTech added.In a Digital Defense Report released in September, Microsoft warned that more than a dozen "nation-state actors" have targeted global COVID-19 response efforts or leveraged the crisis to expand their credential theft and malware delivery tactics.The attacks targeted prominent government healthcare organizations to monitor their networks or people, Microsoft's report said.Security researchers at IBM said last week that hackers had launched a global "phishing campaign" to target organizations associated with cold supply chains for COVID-19 vaccines -- a vital component that ensures safe preservation of the vaccines in temperature-controlled environments during storage and transportation.IBM's experts said the attack had the "potential hallmarks of nation-state tradecraft."Dec. 10 (UPI) -- A humpback whale paid a visit to the Hudson River in New York City and was seen surfacing and spouting water in front of the Statue of Liberty and other landmarks.Research and advocacy group Gotham Whales warned boaters to steer clear of the whale as it spent several hours cruising around the area.Gotham Whales officials said they were able to identify the whale by its dorsal fins."This whale is whale No. 89 and the first time we saw this whale was back in 2018, so two years ago," Sarah Ryan Hudson, a citizen scientist with the organization, told NBC New York.Hudson said the whale appears to be behaving normally for the species."If a whale entered the harbor and it wasn't eating, we might be concerned that there might be something wrong with it. It's disoriented ... it doesn't know where it's going. But since it's eating, we're not as concerned," she said.A whale previously made headlines for visiting the Hudson River in 2016.The city's Parks Department said the most recent visitor may have been drawn in by the improved quality of the local water and the abundance of food sources.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf announced he has tested positive for the coronavirus."I have no symptoms and am felling well," he said. "I am following CDC and Department of Health guidelines.""As this virus rages, my positive test is a reminder that no one is immune from COVID, that following all precautions as I have done is not a guarantee, but it is what we know to be vital to stopping the spread of the disease," he said.Lyndsay Kensinger, the governor's spokeswoman, told reporters that several state police troopers who are apart of Wolf's security detail have tested positive for the virus.Pennsylvania Rep. Barry Jozwiak also announced Wednesday that he had tested positive for COVID-19."I'm focused on following the advice of my doctor and taking steps necessary to recover from this disease," he said in a statement, adding he is at home resting.The governor's positive diagnosis on Wednesday occurred as cases continue to climb in the state, with health officials reporting more than 7,200 infections on Tuesday, which is almost half the record of 12,900 set on Friday.Cases for months had fluctuated between a few hundred and 1,000 a day following an initial spike of about 2,000 in April. However, cases have been escalating since about mid-September.In total, the state has reported about 445,000 infections and 11,760 deaths.Early this week, Wolf warned that the surge threatened to overwhelm healthcare facilities."If we don't slow the spread of this dangerous virus now, the reality is that COVID-19 will overwhelm our hospitals and our healthcare workers," he said Monday in a press conference.In his statement on Wednesday, he urged all Pennsylvanians to wear a mask, stay home, practice socially distancing and, "most of all, take care of each other and stay safe."ORLANDO, Fla., Dec. 10 (UPI) -- United Launch Alliance plans to try again Thursday to launch a spy satellite for the U.S. Department of Defense from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida.The weather for the launch is expected to be good, with only a 10% chance of delays due to the thick clouds, according to a U.S. Space Force forecast.

The company blamed a faulty helium pressure regulator for that abort. The mission was further delayed due to a problem with a retractable support arm at the launch site, according to ULA.The Delta Heavy rocket is a triple-core launcher that produces a collective 2.2 million pounds of thrust. That compares to SpaceX's Falcon Heavy, the most powerful of today's rockets, with 3.4 million pounds of thrust at liftoff.The National Reconnaissance Office, the agency that oversees the launch, is part of the Defense Department. According to its mission statement, it is responsible for developing, launching and operating America's reconnaissance satellites, along with data-processing facilities.That data is used by the National Security Agency and National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency to produce photos, maps, reports and other tools for the president, Congress, national policymakers, warfighters and others.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- France's data protection agency said Thursday it has fined U.S. tech giants Google and Amazon a combined $160 million for using tracking "cookies" without users' consent.The commission said investigators found over the past year that both companies automatically deployed cookies -- small pieces of tracking data that are stored on a user's computer when they visit a website -- without consent, a violation of France's Data Protection Act.French and EU law both mandate that tech companies thoroughly inform users about cookies and receive consent before they can be imposed. A year ago, the Court of Justice of the European Union clarified strict rules concerning cookies that have been followed by European countries for years.While CNIL found that both Google and Amazon had used cookies without consent, the commission also determined that Google continued to store them on users' computers even if they'd opted to deactivate ad personalization."People who use Google expect us to respect their privacy, whether they have a Google account or not," a representative said. "We stand by our record of providing upfront information and clear controls, strong internal data governance, secure infrastructure and above all, helpful products.""We continuously update our privacy practices to ensure that we meet the evolving needs and expectations of customers and regulators and fully comply with all applicable laws in every country in which we operate," Amazon said.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- The Food and Drug Administration's regulatory vaccines committee will meet on Thursday and vote whether to approve emergency use authorization for the COVID-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech.The meeting began Thursday morning and is scheduled to last until late Thursday afternoon. The committee is expected to vote around 3 p.m. EST. Click here to see the meeting schedule.The FDA will rule immediately after it receives the panel's recommendation.Emergency use authorization is the final step necessary before millions of doses can be shipped to the American public.The Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine, which in late-stage clinical trials showed to be about 95% efficient, has already been approved for emergency use in Britain and Canada.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- A Florida man who spent 31 years in prison -- the nation's longest prison time served for nonviolent cannabis crimes -- has been released from prison.He had been sentenced in 1989 to 90 years in prison for nonviolent cannabis crimes.Late last month, a Florida Department of Corrections spokeswoman told CNN he could be released as early as Dec. 4, though his release depended on several factors.DeLisi was sentenced in 1989 on charges of racketeering, trafficking in cannabis and conspiracy after helping smuggle more than 100 pounds of marijuana from Columbia to Florida. Judge Dennis Maloney sentenced both him, and his older brother, Ted DeLisi, in a Polk County courtroom, to three consecutive 30-year sentences on similar charges.Ted DeLisi successfully appealed his conviction, prompting his release from prison in 2013, but Richard DeLisi's appeal was unsuccessful.The Last Prisoner Project, a nonprofit that advocates for ending prison sentences for cannabis offense, along with pro-bono attorneys, had advocated for clemency for DeLisi. Advocates also argued that he had multiple health issues and risked dying if he contracted COVID-19 in prison.Instead, the department said that it resulted from a periodic review of inmate records and recent review of DeLisi's records that found that he had not been awarded 390 days of provisional release credits, DOC Press Secretary Kayla McLaughlin said in an email to The Ledger.The review's findings adjusted his release date to May 13, 2021, according to McLaughlin.DeLisi had forfeited 120 days of gain time for infractions, and he was able to restore that time since he was within 120 days of release, moving his release date to Tuesday, McLaughlin said.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- Federal border authorities in Texas said they have seized more than 100,000 counterfeit surgical masks destined for hospital workers.The masks had an estimated retail price of $600,480.ICE HSI launched Operation Stolen Promise in April with the aim to crack down on rising fraud and crime exploiting the coronavirus pandemic.The operation, which sees federal agencies working with Pfizer, 3M, Amazon and other private sector partners, has resulted in 187 arrests, $28 million worth in proceeds seized, $18.8 million worth in transactions either disrupted or recovered and tens of thousands of COVID-19-related Internet domains analyzed, according to ICE data."This large seizure of counterfeit surgical masks, destined for frontline medical workers, demonstrates the great collaborative effort between CBP and HSI," said Ysleta Port Director Arnoldo Gomez. "Counterfeit surgical masks pose a great risk to our medical community and any individual who may use them."Dec. 10 (UPI) -- The U.S. Supreme Court ruled Thursday that three Muslims who were put on the national no-fly list after refusing to be informants for the FBI can sue the federal government for damages.Justice Clarence Thomas wrote the opinion in the 8-0 ruling. Justice Amy Coney Barrett, who joined the Supreme Court last month, did not vote because she was not on the bench when arguments were made in the case, Tanzin vs. Tanvir.Attorneys for the men in the case say they legally migrated to the United States and have never posed a flying threat, but found themselves on the no-fly list after they declined to be informants for the FBI.They were taken off the list just a few days before going to court, but the men continued to pursue legal action."We conclude that [the law's] express remedies provision permits litigants, when appropriate, to obtain money damages against federal officials in their individual capacities," the 11-page opinion states."A damages remedy is not just 'appropriate' relief as viewed through the lens of suits against government employees. It is also the only form of relief that can remedy some [Religious Freedom Restoration Act] violations."The Supreme Court's judgment affirmed a ruling by the Second Circuit U.S.Court of Appeals, which said the men were allowed seek "appropriate relief" from the government under federal law.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- Israel and Morocco have agreed to normalize relations, the Trump administration announced on Thursday."As part of this deal, Morocco will establish full diplomatic relations and resume official contacts with Israel. They will grant overflights and direct flights to and from Israel for all Israelis," White House adviser Jared Kushner told reporters in a press call Thursday.President Donald Trump called it a "historic breakthrough.""Our great friends Israel and the Kingdom of Morocco have agreed to full diplomatic relations -- a massive breakthrough for peace in the Middle East," he tweeted.The Moroccan government has mostly controlled the area, but a small portion has been managed by the partially recognized Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, a self-proclaimed sovereign state established by the Polisario Front in the 1970s."The United States believes an independent Sahrawi State is not a realistic option for resolving the conflict and that genuine autonomy under Moroccan sovereignty is the only solution," the proclamation states. "We urge the parties to engage in discussions without delay, using Morocco's autonomy plan as the only framework to negotiate a mutually acceptable solution.Morocco is said to be the first country to recognize the United States after it declared independence 244 years ago."Morocco recognized the United States in 1777," Trump added in a tweet. "It is thus fitting we recognize their sovereignty over the Western Sahara."Morocco and the United States recently renewed a defense cooperation road map through 2030.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- Test runs for quickly distributing millions of doses of a new COVID-19 vaccine exposed some problems and showed "varying levels of success," a state health official warned Senate lawmakers Thursday."In recent mock shipments of vaccine to train and test the transportation/logistics planning that has been done by [Operation Warp Speed], there have been varying levels of success," Levine said in prepared remarks.If not addressed, she said, those types of problems will "delay the vaccination of key prioritized populations."The Trump administration has so far allocated just $340 million to states and territories to help with distribution. The billions required to vaccinate most Americans has been held up in congressional deadlock over COVID-19 funding.The Association of State and Territorial Health Officers is requesting that Congress provide $8.4 billion in emergency funding for the vaccination campaign, which includes money for staffers, infrastructure and cold supply chain management.The Senate committee also heard, in person, from United Parcel Service President of Global Healthcare Wesley Wheeler and FedEx Executive Vice President Richard Smith.During a recent visit by Operation Warp Speed leaders to UPS health facilities in Kentucky, he said, officials examined "ultra-low temperature shipments" and "dry ice replenishment.""I believe they left feeling confident with our degree of readiness," he said.Smith said because FedEx has been working with drugmakers for years, it's familiar with what will be needed."We know them well, we know their business well, we work well together," he said. "And we plan for these things every year."No vaccine has yet been approved for use against COVID-19 in the United States, but that is expected to change Thursday afternoon when regulators vote on the vaccine developed jointly by Pfizer and BioNTech. Approval may also be given for a vaccine from Moderna next week.The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine has already been approved for use in Britain and Canada, and is awaiting similar approval in Israel. Britain began inoculating people on Tuesday.Both vaccines have proven in late-stage clinical trials to be about 95% effective in blocking the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19, the companies say.Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar said last month the goal is to have 40 million doses distributed by the end of December.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- The Minneapolis City Council on Thursday approved shifting nearly $8 million away from the city's police department, but declined to reduce the size of the force, in its first budget since the death of George Floyd became a flashpoint for reform six months ago.But in a late turnaround, the council opted to reject a proposal that would have reduced the Minneapolis Police Department to 750 officers, starting in 2022.The council's vote early Thursday followed hours of emotional testimony on Wednesday from Minneapolis residents and political leaders, who debated how the city should respond to widespread calls for police reform after the death of Floyd -- a Black man who was killed by white Minneapolis police officers on May 25.Video of Floyd's arrest and death, caused by one officer pressing his knee down on Floyd's neck for close to 10 minutes, fueled outrage and led to demonstrations nationwide that called for immediate and substantial reforms."I urge you to fund profound change in how we run our city and care for each other," one resident said during the virtual hearing. "Put money where your mouth is."If you [council members] can't commit to funding real solutions to the many crises Minneapolis faces, why are you even representing us?"However, she lauded the decision to shift funding from the police force to violence prevention."The budget makes important investments in affordable housing, health and economic recovery," she tweeted."My colleagues were right to leave the targeted staffing level unchanged ... and continue moving forward with our shared priorities," Frey said in a statement.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- Airbnb shares surged in its trading debut to $146 each, 115% above initial public offering price of $68.At $146 per share on its first day of trading Thursday, the market capitalization for the home rental operator rose to $87 billion beating the market cap of competitors."Now that people are coming to Airbnb, they don't necessarily have a destination in mind or dates, because they're flexible. We're all obviously on Zoom, and so people are saying, 'I want to go anywhere 300 miles around me, what can you show me," Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky told CNBC ahead of the IPO. "Now we're going to be getting a little bit more into the game of inspiration and matching people to the perfect home experience for them."On Wednesday, food delivery service DoorDash stock soared 85% in its market debut."Even though [Airbnb had] obviously been hurt by the pandemic, as has all travel, it stands to really get most of the early tail winds as people start coming out of hiding," Max Gokhman, head of asset allocation at Pacific Life Fund Advisors told Financial Times.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- The United States for the first time has seen more than 3,000 coronavirus-related deaths in a single day.Over the past week, there has been an average of almost 2,300 deaths per day.Hospitalizations also set a record Wednesday, 106,000 nationwide. About a fifth of all those patients are in intensive care.The new figures Thursday came ahead of a key meeting of the Food and Drug Administration's regulatory vaccines committee, which is expected to grant emergency use authorization for the vaccine developed jointly by Pfizer and BioNTech.Here are some of the other COVID-19 developments Thursday:
The New England Journal of Medicine published data from Pfizer's late-stage clinical trials. The paper said 22,000 volunteers took the vaccine and 22,000 a placebo. There were 162 COVID-19 infections among the placebo group, but just eight among those who received the vaccine.Senators are holding a hearing on Capitol Hill to examine federal plans for transporting millions of doses of vaccines nationwide. A subcommittee of the Senate commerce committee questioned witnesses about "supply chain issues within the transportation network and ongoing coordination in preparation to distribute the vaccine." The witness list includes Pennsylvania Health Secretary Dr. Rachel Levine, FedEx Executive Vice President Richard Smith and United Parcel Service President of Global Healthcare Wesley Wheeler.BioNTech, Pfizer's vaccine development partner, said hackers "unlawfully accessed" regulatory documents the companies had submitted to the European Union for vaccine approval. BioNTech said the hacked documents were stored on a European server, but stressed that no BioNTech or Pfizer systems were breached and no personal data relating to the vaccine study were compromised.Dec. 10 (UPI) -- The U.S. government on Thursday is set to execute a man convicted of killing a Texas couple two decades ago -- the second such execution of the lame-duck presidency of Donald Trump.Bernard, 40, is awaiting a ruling from the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on his application for a stay of execution. His attorneys filed a motion for the stay Wednesday, seeking time to appeal his case based on allegations that prosecutors withheld evidence that may have spared their client the death penalty.Defense attorneys said they discovered evidence showing their client had a lesser role in the crime and the gang that perpetrated the killings. They argue that knowledge "almost certainly" would have persuaded at least one juror to vote for life in prison over the death penalty.Prosecutors argued at trial that the Bagleys gave Vialva and two other accomplices in the case a ride before the men held them at gunpoint and locked them in the trunk of their vehicle. They also stole the couple's money and a wedding ring.Bernard's attorneys said he was not with those three accomplices when they kidnapped the Bagleys, but was called to join later in his own vehicle. The four then drove the Bagleys and the two vehicles to Fort Hood Army base, where prosecutors said Vialva shot the couple in the head and set the car on fire.Defense lawyers said Bernard believed he was called to help dispose of the Bagleys' vehicle and let them go free. Police arrested the four men after their vehicle slid off the road into a ditch near the Bagleys' burning vehicle.
Bernard is set to die Thursday for the 1999 murders of Todd and Stacie Bagley. Many, including jurors from his trial, have asked President Donald Trump to commute the sentence. Photo courtesy of attorneys for Brandon BernardBecause the murders took place on a military reservation, they were considered federal offenses.Vialva was executed for his role in September.U.S. Attorney General William Barr resumed federal executions in July after a 17-year hiatus. Daniel Lewis Lee, Wesley Purkey and Dustin Honken were executed in July; Lezmond Mitchell and Keith Dwayne Nelson in August; William LeCroy and Vialva in September; and Orlando Hall in November.Hall's execution was the first to be carried out during a lame-duck presidency since President Grover Cleveland's administration in 1880, according to the Death Penalty Information Center. Some critics, including Democrats in Congress, have called for the Trump administration to halt the executions scheduled for the remainder of his term and leave them for President-elect Joe Biden's administration to handle."These executions are a further illustration of how deviant and dangerously out of touch this government's conduct has been during the entire course of this execution spree," DPIC Executive Director Robert Dunham told UPI in November."No lame-duck president has attempted to carry out an execution in more than a century. And to cavalierly do so, as infections from a virus that has killed a quarter-million Americans are exploding across the country, exhibits a pathological lack of concern for public health and safety."Dec. 10 (UPI) -- Two U.S. B-52H Stratofortresses flew a show-of-force mission in the Persian Gulf intended to deter attacks from Iran Thursday, the Pentagon said."Potential adversaries should understand that no nation on earth is more ready and capable of rapidly deploying additional combat power in the face of any aggression," U.S. Central Command's commander, Gen. Frank McKenzie, said.The B-52s were joined by aircraft from Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Qatar.This is the second U.S. show-of-force mission involving B-52s in the region in as many months.The mission comes two weeks after the assassination of a top nuclear scientist in Iran and amid escalating tentions between the United States and Iran."We do not seek conflict," McKenzie said, "but we must remain postured and committed to respond to any contingency or in opposition to any aggression."A pair of U.S. Air Force B-52H "Stratofortresses" assigned to Barksdale Air Force Base operated in the CENTCOM area of responsibility with other @usairforce and regional partner aircraft in the second mission in as many months. Dec. 10, 2020 @USAFCENT https://t.co/zpZBxQ5uh7 pic.twitter.com/xZ5GzHnIo8— U.S. Central Command (@CENTCOM) December 10, 2020Dec. 10 (UPI) -- YouTube has banned content alleging widespread voter fraud changed the U.S. election outcome."Enough states have certified their election results to determine a president-elect," YouTube said in a blog post Wednesday. "Given that, we will start removing any piece of content uploaded today (or anytime after) that misleads people by alleging that widespread fraud or errors changed the outcome of the 2020 U.S. presidential election."The social media platform added that it would ramp up activity to remove such videos in weeks to come."As always, news coverage and commentary on these issues can remain as long at there's sufficient education, documentary, scientific or artistic context," YouTube said.The group urged the platform to "immediately remove all election outcome misinformation."The YouTube ban against such content comes after some Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee alleged big technology companies like Facebook and Twitter have anti-conservative bias in October. Later that same month, the Senate committee on commerce, held a hearing on updating Section 230, which shields social media platforms from liability as mere conduits for users' content."@Google owned @YouTube officially announcing free speech no longer allowed," Hawley tweeted. "If you have concerns about election integrity, you must sit down and shut up. Repeal Section 230 and break these companies up."President Donald Trump and some other Republicans have made unsubstantiated claims of "substantial irregularities and improprieties associated with mail-in balloting," in Pennsylvania. On Tuesday, the U.S. Supreme Court, which has a six-member conservative majority, including three justices Trump appointed, rejected Pennsylvania Republicans' effort to overturn President-elect Joe Biden's victory.Still, on Wednesday Trump held onto a long-shot effort to contest the election through a Texas lawsuit.Legal analysts said that the lawsuit filed directly with the U.S. Supreme Court to contest the election in four key battleground states based on changes in election procedures is all but certain to fail.YouTube said in its blog post Wednesday that it also has policies against "spam, scams, or other manipulated media, coordinated influence operations, and any content that seeks to incite violence."Prior to Wednesday, YouTube said it had already eliminated "over 8,000 channels," since September "and thousands of harmful and misleading elections-related videos" based on its existing policies.Is there anything a left-wing activist can do to fail in media? Using Joy Reid as the standard gives us an indication. Reid, who hosts her own MSNBC show, has long been a point of frustration and baffled awe of conservative media commentators. As Bre Payton pointed out back in 2018, Reid has a knack for getting away with things no one on the right side of the political spectrum could dream of.Many Americans are aware of her homophobic remarks she claimed a hacker wrote on her old blog, as well as her support for Iran’s antisemitic proposal to move Israel to Europe and her sharing of 9/11 truther information. Nevertheless, this coming spring, Reid will be teaching journalism students about race and gender in media reporting at Howard University in the Department of Media, Journalism and Film as a visiting professor. Her focus will be on the “racial roots of journalistic objectivity vs. fairness,” disinformation in media, and black voters.On teaching a course on how race and gender affect political coverage, Reid remarked, “Particularly in this era of virtual media, and deep partisanship and political division, it’s never been more important that journalists incorporate a thorough and honest historical context in our coverage.” When considering Reid’s actual commentary and journalism, this plays out like a parody.Discussing the upcoming Georgia runoff election recently, Reid went on an unhinged rant about GOP Sens. Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue. She accused them, without any basis whatsoever, of exploiting the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday for empty politics.This, she argued, was true for “all GOPers,” as though any time a Republican honors King’s legacy it is shallow and hypocritical. She justified this with an ongoing, but completely unfounded, argument of voter suppression against black and minority voters. To boot, she has also argued that a Democrat will never get a majority of white voters.The bitter irony is that if @KLoeffler pulls off a win in this #GASen election you know where she’ll be on MLK Day? Beating down the door of Ebenezer Baptist Church trying to get @ReverendWarnock to put her on the dais or the pulpit like all the GOPers do including her in January— Joy WE VOTED!! WEAR A MASK!! Reid 😷) (@JoyAnnReid) December 7, 2020.@sendavidperdue would be there too, acting like it’s all good with Black Georgians and nothing happened at all. That’s the sickness of American politics: the theatrical “not a racist bone in my body” touches are strictly for King Day. Then it’s back to voter suppression & graft.— Joy WE VOTED!! WEAR A MASK!! Reid 😷) (@JoyAnnReid) December 7, 2020No Democrat is going to get a majority of white voters in America anytime soon due to racially polarized voting — and I mean even if Jesus ran as a Dem he’d max out at 43 overall and Republicans would call him a socialist, so trust me, those numbers are good for Biden.— Joy WE VOTED!! WEAR A MASK!! Reid 😷) (@JoyAnnReid) September 20, 2020Another one of her recent tirades focused on President Trump’s rally in Georgia, which she asserted was simply done to rile up racist Republican voters who “can’t believe blacks of all people are allowed to vote and elect a president.” This, of course, ignores the fact that about 8 percent of black voters (18 percent of black male voters) supported President Trump in the 2020 election.A so-called journalist who will be focusing on race in political reporting should probably not be making such bold and defamatory accusations against an entire political party.And while Trump is grifting off his credulous supporter marks, the Republican Party will use the same doubts he's dredging up among the base — who can't believe BLACKS OF ALL PEOPLE ARE ALLOWED TO VOTE AND ELECT A PRESIDENT — to further gut voting rights & secure minority rule.— Joy WE VOTED!! WEAR A MASK!! Reid 😷) (@JoyAnnReid) December 5, 2020Continuing this thread of misinformation designed to fuel hatred and bigotry, Reid went on a long lecture on how the cause of the massive rioting the country witnessed over the last year were white nationalists, “unleashed at night.” Blaming Trump, she detailed her conspiracy theory that armed white nationalists were targeting peaceful Black Lives Matter protests to “scare fellow white people” into supporting the president.“It’s an old, tried and true strategy: using fear and anti-blackness for politics,” she claimed, again without evidence. There is absolutely nothing to support such a ridiculous hallucination. In a weird contradiction of these claims, she also publicly praised two violent rioters who attacked Kyle Rittenhouse, calling them “brave young men,” and shared a story claiming Trump was fomenting “deadly violence” and “ethnic cleansing” in defending Rittenhouse.Violence and mayhem, perpetrated by people who support HIM, unleashed at night and let's just be clear: by white nationalist mobs, often against other young white people (both Rosenbaum and Huber were white), in cities with few Black people, IS HIS RE-ELECTION STRATEGY. Period.— Joy WE VOTED!! WEAR A MASK!! Reid 😷) (@JoyAnnReid) August 30, 2020The "riots" are not Black Lives Matter marches gone wrong. Armed white nationalists are mobbing these cities to take advantage of protests and scare fellow white people into quietly siding with them. It's an old, tried and true strategy: using fear & anti-blackness for politics.— Joy WE VOTED!! WEAR A MASK!! Reid 😷) (@JoyAnnReid) August 30, 2020Demonstrating her hypocrisy and continuing the conspiracy theory that white nationalists were behind the Black Lives Matter rioting, Reid attempted to shame Republicans for not condemning threats made against election workers in Georgia; The White House did so the next day.When Sen. Lindsey Graham was threatened by opinion journalist Jimmy Williams if he pushed forward a Supreme Court nomination this past September, with Williams saying “I will do everything I can to destroy you,” Reid promoted his tweet, saying, “The knives are out, y’all. Here we go…”Joy tweeted in support of protests at Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s offices in Kentucky and DC saying, “The masses are moving. Republicans won’t steal RBG’s seat painlessly.” This as prominent left-wing activists and organizations were surrounding the homes of Republicans in “protests” to intimidate them over the Supreme Court seat. Outrage over political intimidation is selective for Reid, it would seem.The people who lie about Black Lives Matter, pretending the young people who march against police killing Black people are violent, have been silent about the nooses, death and rape threats against people on their own partisan side, simply because their candidate lost. It's sick. https://t.co/VeMUBSEt3A— Joy WE VOTED!! WEAR A MASK!! Reid 😷) (@JoyAnnReid) December 2, 2020Because it was developed during the Trump era, and in light of historic medical injustices against the black community, Reid has even perpetuated distrust of the coming COVID vaccine."To often, science has been a tool of white supremacy." @DrChrisMD says 'it's not the responsibility of the community to suddenly have trust but it's responsibility of the academic medical complex, health care more broadly to demonstrate trustworthiness.'#thereidout pic.twitter.com/kUCXojYkmC— The ReidOut (@thereidout) December 1, 2020So, yes, Reid is a profoundly reckless and irresponsible activist who engages in openly racist arguments. Whether she is spreading false information about voter suppression and other conspiracy theories, spreading racism, hatred and bigotry against Republicans or others based exclusively on their skin color, or engaging in open activism and partisanship, Reid is one of the last people working in the legacy media today who should be teaching journalism students anything, let alone about honesty and integrity.Despite all this, she received the 2016 Women’s Media Center Journalism award and was offered the prominent MSNBC nightly anchor slot formerly held by Chris Matthews. Even after ignoring calls to apologize for an Islamophobic comment, in left-wing circles she is still praised, not for her work but solely for what she looks like.Associate professor and former CNN producer Jennifer Thomas cheered Reid’s newest recognition “as the only Black woman to anchor a prime-time news show on any major network.” It seems, once again, for the left all that matters is what you look like and what you represent, not integrity, reliability, or anything resembling honesty in media.“[L]esbian as a category” is vanishing, warns lesbian journalist Katie Herzog over at Andrew Sullivan’s Weekly Dish. She laments that being an out and proud lesbian is no longer cool and notes how women who like women are increasingly “coming out as nonbinary or as men” instead.Herzog noted this just days before “Juno” and “The Umbrella Academy” star Ellen Page announced on December 1 that she is no longer a lesbian because she’s now a “he” named Elliot. She explained, “I can’t express how remarkable it feels to finally love who I am enough to pursue my authentic self.”Ellen is still married to dancer Emma Portner. Thus, it is unclear what that makes Emma now. PinkNews reported that someone “clumsily” asked her this very question on Instagram, to which Emma curiously replied, “I hope you know my sexual preferences and gender identity are none of your business.”But it does appear Emma is no longer a lesbian, explaining, “Release your labels of me. I am as fluid as can be.” It certainly was not the questioner who brought up labels. Emma throws them out like candy, describing her new husband (?) as “trans, queer and non-binary” and herself as “genderqueer.” Lesbian is no longer in their lexicon.It’s more than celebrities. This is a nationwide trend. Lesbian bars are drying up at such a rapid clip that the Lesbian Bar Project is here to save them. While there are more than 63,000 bars across America today, only 15 of them are the lesbian type.Alabama has precisely as many as California: one each. Texas is the only state with two. New York has three, all in Gotham. This is a dramatic decline from the roughly 200 lesbian joints that dotted our nation in the late 1980s.Each of the lesbians Herzog spoke to for her article asked to be kept anonymous for fear of reprisals from their supposed allies in the queer community. One confirmed, “It’s not cool to be a lesbian in the same way that it’s cool to be queer or trans or nonbinary.” Another expressed that most of her peers now see the term “lesbians as stodgy, old-fashioned, and uncool, whereas queers were hip, edgy, and inclusive.”Non-binary and queer are the cool new things. Anything that smacks of being a genuine woman is not. The stubborn fact that male and female each have an objective nature will ultimately be the end of contemporary gender theory, and it looks like lesbians are the canary in that coal mine.Herzog tells of a professor friend who mentioned to a campus colleague that she was lesbian. The woman “reacted like I’d confessed to being a Confederate Lost-Causer.” She was scolded that “the term is outdated and problematic, and I shouldn’t use it.”The problem is it’s a bit too bio-essentialist and exclusive. So this professor now keeps quiet about her sexuality among her leftist peers. In fact, she added ironically, “it’s like living in a second closet” now.What’s at work here is about much more than lesbianism simply losing its cool. It involves two fundamental problematic realities inherent in LGBT dogma and practice.First, lesbianism never was the “thing” its promoters claimed it was. It is certainly not “just the way some people are.” This has been made clear in various ways in the academic literature over the last two decades.Would it surprise you to know that people who identify as lesbian have much higher pregnancy rates than heterosexual women? It is true. One study among many explains, “Again, bisexual and lesbian teens were more likely in each region to report pregnancy histories than heterosexual peers.”Another study examined the pregnancy rates of adult sexual-minority women [SMW], revealing the same thing: “In our supplementary analyses, we found that both unintended pregnancies ending in abortion and unintended pregnancies with other outcomes (e.g., birth, miscarriage) were more common for SMW than heterosexual women.”In fact, the abortion and birth rates of non-heterosexually identified women is roughly twice that of the heterosexual population. That is a whole lot of baby-making sex going on among women who were supposedly “born lesbian.”Leading gender theorists have long established that female sexuality, contrary to that of males, is extremely malleable. Professor Lisa Diamond is a giant in this field. In an important TEDx Talk, she explained, “The plain truth is that gender and sexual development show a lot more variability than most people realize, and that variability often leads to change over time in sexual attraction. . . . Sexual attractions show a fair amount of fluidity.”This is because, Diamond explains, “women are . . . more likely than men to say that they become attracted to—or fall in love with—the person and not the gender.” As such, “women typically report that their unusually strong emotional feelings spill over into sexual desire— . . . even desires that contradict their sexual orientations—as a result of falling in love.” Diamond’s most notable publication is her book “Sexual Fluidity: Understanding Women’s Love and Desire,” published by Harvard University Press.Another leader in the field, Northwestern University’s J. Michael Bailey, infamously asked in a classic paper whether women even have a sexual orientation as we typically think about it. He explains, “There is an emerging consensus that women’s sexual partner choices are sometimes made for different reasons than men’s.”“Men,” Bailey adds, “but not women, have a category-specific sexual arousal pattern, one that is usually directed more strongly to members of one sex than to those of the other.” He and his peers in the field conclude that, in general, men have a sexual orientation toward certain body parts. Women have a romantic orientation to the person. This understanding has gained near-universal consensus and explains the high pregnancy rates of so-called lesbians.Still, lesbianism, such as it is, is also being smashed by the intolerant patriarchy of transgenderism. This is no small thing. The lesbian bar is no longer a women’s space because, the Lesbian Bar Project claims, “the label Lesbian belongs to all people who feel that it empowers them.”This is lesbian sisterhood being forced to submit to men under the patriarchal guise of trans inclusivity. In the good old days, any self-respecting lesbian could tell a man who insisted on buying her a drink where he could go and be cheered a feminist hero for doing so. Today, if that same man wears a pencil skirt and claims to be trans, that lesbian becomes the worst person in the world.Herzog bravely and correctly observes, “Oddly, these fights only seem to occur around women’s space, not men’s.” That is because women who believe they are men know better than to sidle up to the gay bar insisting they are just one of the guys looking for a good time.U.K. lesbian writer Claire Heuchan warns, “Everywhere you look, there are reminders of how little the safety and wellbeing of lesbian women is valued. We can’t seem to escape violence and vilification. Especially since, in recent months, a lot of it has come from within the LGBT communities we helped build. …[E]ven within LGBT spheres, where we are – at least theoretically – part of the community, lesbians are now being vilified.”Women being forced to bow to the needs of men. Who saw this happening when gender theory tried to convince us that men and women are all just the same?For months, former Vice President Joe Biden has vehemently denied that any evidence exists that his son, Hunter, was involved in criminal activity or wrongdoing. These denials now look like dishonesty after the Biden-Harris transition team released a statement Wednesday acknowledging that Hunter is indeed under investigation by the Department of Justice for potential tax crimes.“I learned yesterday for the first time that the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Delaware advised my legal counsel, also yesterday, that they are investigating my tax affairs,” Hunter wrote in the statement.This news, as Federalist Editor Mollie Hemingway pointed out, is not actually new and was reported before the election, but was purposefully suppressed by gatekeepers like Facebook, Twitter, and corporate media outlets who ignored the reporting on Hunter Biden’s affairs. In October, the New York Post and others reported Biden’s knowledge and potential involvement in his son’s overseas business dealings during his time as vice president. A few weeks later,  investigative reporter James Rosen broke news that the FBI was investigating Hunter for money laundering.As early as 2019, Biden began to deny that Hunter or anyone else in the Biden family ever did anything wrong, ignoring the concerns of some about Hunter’s affiliation with the Ukrainian energy company “Burisma.”“Every single, solitary, serious investigation, including your network and others, have looked at this, have said there’s absolutely zero basis to the accusation that I had acted anyway inappropriately or that my son did,” Biden said at a presidential town hall in Iowa.In an interview with Axios on HBO, Biden seemed appalled that a reporter even dared to ask him about his son’s foreign business and work.“I mean, come on, this is — (laughs) — you guys are amazing,” Biden responded when the reporter asked him about Hunter’s business dealings.“So you think everything that happened was kosher?” the reporter shot back.“You know there’s not one single bit of evidence, not one little tiny bit that says anything done was wrong. You know that,” Biden continued.In the same interview, Biden denied knowing anything about his son’s dealings except for the fact that Hunter was on the board of Burisma, a fact he said wasn’t disclosed until after it occurred.Shortly before one of the Democratic Presidential Debate, Biden echoed these denials, instead choosing to shift the blame on President Donald Trump.“Every major national, international, and local news operations looked into it and said it’s a lie. This is a president who’s flat-lying,” he said.In February this year, when NBC’s Savannah Guthrie pressed Biden on whether it was appropriate for his son to take the Burisma board position, Biden lashed out, saying, “Well that’s not true. You’re saying things you do not know what you’re talking about.”Joe Biden on why his son Hunter — who had no experience in Ukraine or in the energy sector — got an $80,000-per-month board seat with Burisma as father Biden was running US policy in Ukraine: "Cause he's a very bright guy." pic.twitter.com/2jOFbZQsre— Aaron Maté (@aaronjmate) February 3, 2020“No one has found anything wrong with his dealings with Ukraine,” Biden told Guthrie.The claims continued for the rest of his campaign all the way through the election, where he repeated multiple times that “there’s not been one scintilla of evidence that my son ever interfered, that he ever asked me anything, that I ever got involved in anything.”Instead of addressing the evidence and emails presented from a laptop belonging to Hunter, Biden’s only acknowledged the New York Post, which alleged the former VP was introduced to a senior adviser to Burisma through Hunter while Joe was the “public face” of the Obama administration’s policy towards Ukraine, was when he called it a “smear campaign,” and blamed the press for asking questions about it.“I know you’d ask it. I have no response, it’s another smear campaign, right up your alley, those are the questions you always ask,” he said.I asked Joe Biden: What is your response to the NYPost story about your son, sir?He called it a “smear campaign” and then went after me. “I know you’d ask it. I have no response, it’s another smear campaign, right up your alley, those are the questions you always ask.” pic.twitter.com/Eo6VD4TqxD— Bo Erickson CBS (@BoKnowsNews) October 17, 2020Biden and his team also latched onto a rumor started by Rep. Adam Schiff that Russia was somehow behind the release of the evidence.“Giuliani, he is being used as a Russian pawn– he is being fed information that is not true,” Biden said from the presidential debate stage in October. “We have shared no intelligence with Chairman Schiff or any other member of Congress that Hunter Biden’s laptop is part of some Russian disinformation campaign,” Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe said. “It’s simply not true.”“You know there’s not one single bit of evidence, not one little tiny bit that says anything done was wrong,” Joe Biden said on multiple occasions. The only inadvertent benefit of Brennan’s airtime is that it exposes how unmoored our ruling class is from the public it is supposed to serve.Attorney General Bill Barr appointed U.S. Attorney John Durham to lead a special counsel investigation into the origins of the Russia hoax.Top Republican senators are demanding the DOJ to declassify documents reportedly showing ‘Anonymous’ author as Crossfire Hurricane witness.Proving whether election irregularities occurred will require a willingness to judge the evidence fairly, not a habit of declaring demonstrable facts to have been ‘debunked.’“Where’s Hunter, fat?” This question, which got anonymous conservative Twitter personality Comfortably Smug suspended from the platform, has come to define Silicon Valley’s approach to handling scandals surrounding their preferred presidential candidate. The question, mocking former Vice President Joe Biden for fat-shaming an Iowa voter for making accusations later shown to be true, is now more relevant than ever.On Wednesday, Hunter Biden re-emerged in the spotlight after the Biden-Harris transition team released a statement that the president-elect’s son is under investigation by the Justice Department for potential tax crimes.“I learned yesterday for the first time that the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Delaware advised my legal counsel, also yesterday, that they are investigating my tax affairs,” Hunter admitted through his father’s transition team.While the detail on Hunter’s taxes might be new, the existence of a federal investigation into the Biden family finances had already been reported just days before the November election. Big tech and big media just throttled it, and as with other big stories, the Biden team is just playing along as if corporate media gets to define reality.On Oct. 29, Sinclair’s James Rosen revealed the FBI was still conducting an ongoing money-laundering investigation into Hunter Biden.EXCLUSIVE: Tony Bobulinski tells @WeAreSinclair he was questioned by six @FBI agents, with counsel present, for five hours on October 23, listing him as a "material witness" in an ongoing investigation focused on Hunter Biden and his associates. His cell phones were examined. pic.twitter.com/5lPzRTREJN— James Rosen (@JamesRosenTV) October 29, 2020At the time, however, legacy media was maintaining a barricade against reporting the major news threatening to impede their candidate’s chances to land four years in the White House. It was the same media routinely dismissing the blockbuster reporting from the New York Post implicating Joe Biden in his son’s potentially criminal overseas business activity as Russian disinformation, contrary to statements from FBI, the Department of Justice, the director of national intelligence, and the Department of State.What corporate coverage there was of the Biden bombshells — revealing the presidential candidate stood to rake in millions from Chinese communist leaders, lied repeatedly when denying conversations about his son’s business, and leveraged his high-powered position to benefit the family — almost immediately dropped off even as they became more important in light of his White House ascent.Now legacy outlets that derided the biggest story of the entire campaign as Russian interference to excuse their activism are treating Wednesday’s statement from Biden as a brand-new story.Shot and chaser. pic.twitter.com/4O4RIPHYPg— Courtney Shadegg (@CShadegg) December 10, 2020Before Wednesday, The New York Times hadn’t published a single news story containing the name “Hunter Biden” since the election, other than one article complaining that conservative media had given ink and air time to the scandal. Not much more attention was given to the president-elect’s son by the Washington Post or CNN. Several stories will come up featuring December dates, when the admission from the Biden team forced the newsrooms that protected the Democratic ticket from journalism to actually report on the investigation, but it would be unwise to finally expect fair coverage.In their homepage story on Wednesday’s statement from Hunter Biden, CNN omitted any mention of family business partner-turned whistleblower Tony Bobulinski, who in October claimed these business deals through Hunter have compromised Joe Biden with communist China.Despite their homepage headline about Hunter Biden, a search for “Bobulinski,” the former business associate of Hunter who spoke out before the election about the Biden family’s shady dealings, still comes up empty at @CNN. pic.twitter.com/6KSdDhhsns— Drew Holden (@DrewHolden360) December 10, 2020Neither did The New York Times in theirs.It is particularly egregious from @nytimes because one of their stories is about how the “November surprise” of Bobulinski never gained traction. Funny that. pic.twitter.com/Y8p4aOUBUx— Drew Holden (@DrewHolden360) December 10, 2020Outlets that relied on anonymous sources for years to promote their Russiagate hoax built on the Democrat Party-funded junk Steele opposition research will likely defend their decision to neglect Bobulinski in their reporting by claiming Bobulinski was not credible. One can easily imagine how credible Bobulinski would suddenly appear to them if he began defaming the outgoing president. After all, former CIA Director John Brennan still gets a platform despite his decades of proven lies.Before Biden cements his grip on power, however, Attorney General William Barr ought to put a special counsel in place to ensure the wide-ranging charges of corruption are properly investigated absent more Democratic disruption.This is why AG Barr needs to appoint a Special Counsel to investigate Hunter Biden. It would be wildly inappropriate if his dad’s AG was involved in this matter. https://t.co/RUYVAyARE3— Congressman Ken Buck (@RepKenBuck) December 9, 2020As of this writing, no one knows where Hunter is.The popular narrative of MeToo, eagerly pushed by liberal outlets, is of vulnerable women taking down powerful men. My story is very much the opposite of that.Hunter Biden re-emerged in the spotlight after releasing a statement through the Biden-Harris transition team he is under federal investigation. That was true before the election.For the left, it’s not about integrity, reliability, or anything resembling honesty. Apparently, all that matters is who you are and what you represent.Parler COO Jeffrey Wernick criticized the Post for ‘biased reporting’ and refusing to apply the same scrutiny to social media platforms like Twitter.Yglesias will become part of The New Contras, a band of center-left journalists whose willingness to critique the excesses of leftism have pushed them from major publications to ascendant self-publishing platforms. Depicting a law as “anti-gay” is the kind of sensationalism sure to produce plenty of “clicks,” “likes,” and “shares” on social media. The modern-day mudslinging journalist doesn’t even need facts to back up such an accusation to get attention.Just consider news coverage of our efforts to defend a longstanding Indiana law governing how parents are identified on a newborn baby’s birth certificate. For decades, if not centuries, Indiana has recognized two types of parenthood: biological and adoptive. Indiana, therefore, lists a child’s biological parents, and no one else, on the child’s birth certificate unless the child is legally adopted.When a married woman gives birth in Indiana, her husband is presumed to be the biological father — barring any information to the contrary. Such a presumption of a child’s biological connection to both spouses obviously cannot be made when the birth mother is married to another woman.In the latter circumstance, Indiana law has permitted the wife of the birth mother to become the child’s parent through adoption — just as a man may adopt the child of his wife when the biological father happens to be another man (such as in many cases of artificial insemination).Anytime a child is adopted, the adoptive parent enjoys the same legal rights and interests associated with the child as a biological parent. Objections to Indiana’s fatherhood-presumption law ignore adoption as an available means to attain parenthood.Multiple outlets have published headlines screaming that all these issues revolve around how the world should treat “gay parents.” From seeing such stories, the casual reader might get the impression that our law reflects simple-minded discrimination and prejudice. Yet while the case was brought by gay married couples, the law itself has nothing to do with sexual orientation.Indiana’s law is built quite straightforwardly on the longstanding principle that both biological parents of a child have rights, obligations, and legal interests associated with the child that can be overcome only by judicial decree. As Indiana’s attorney general, in respect of my duty to defend state law, I recently filed a brief asking the U.S. Supreme Court to review a lower federal court’s declaration that Indiana’s birth-certificate law is unconstitutional.The federal appeals court ruled that, because Indiana does not require a genetic test for every birth, our birth-certificate system is somehow based on marriage rather than biology. But why should states be forced into the unnecessary expense of requiring a DNA test for every newborn, even those born to a mother who does not doubt that her husband is the biological father?The great majority of the time, a birth mother’s husband is the baby’s biological father. By adding unnecessary expense and warrantless intrusion into the privacy of the marriage, mandatory DNA tests for every child could create more problems, not fewer.Conversely, why should Indiana be forced to abandon its practice of grounding parental rights, at least initially, in biological connections to the child rather than a pure maternal assignment — potentially violating the fundamental rights of biological parents? And what then about the rights of two married gay men who wish to have a baby? How do they acquire parental rights at birth? Alas, the lower courts avoid that unanswerable question.Quite simply, the U.S. Constitution does not require Indiana to make such costly, intrusive, and ultimately inequitable choices. Nor do the Supreme Court’s cases upholding the rights of same-sex couples to marry and have children require states to ignore biological facts.In one previous case, the Supreme Court struck down an Arkansas law that some have tried to compare to Indiana’s. But the Arkansas law provided that the husband of a birth mother be named on the birth certificate as the father even when the mother was impregnated by artificial insemination with the help of a sperm donor. Indiana law, which recognizes only “a biological or an adoptive parent,” forbids such knowing misidentification of a biological father.The Supreme Court should uphold Indiana’s common-sense system for presuming — subject to rebuttal — the identity of biological parents at birth. Just as important, it is time for the media to stop suggesting that it is “anti-gay” for a state to maintain laws simply aimed at respecting the constitutionally protected rights and obligations of a child’s biological father.The Chinese Communist Party is suppressing real information about COVID-19 and punishing people and countries that demand to know the truth.Americans who aren’t aware of this are susceptible to believing false information about the CCP, and how its system and economic and military power threaten Americans’ health and security. Without being armed with accurate information, Americans cannot effectively hold government officials accountable for their approach to China.In October, the Chicago Council on Global Affairs released a study that found that a majority of Republicans (64 percent) say the United States should actively work to limit the growth of China’s power, while a majority of Democrats (60 percent) favor friendly cooperation and engagement with China. Americans’ favorable views of China have declined across the board in recent years, but the results of this study are still concerning. The CCP’s behavior during the ongoing pandemic should alert Americans to the dangers of trusting China to honor its legal and ethical commitments.China’s gross deception during the pandemic illustrates the CCP’s obsession with cultivating a glowing reputation of the regime’s control and its determination to contrast its system with open and democratic systems. All of this, of course, comes at the expense of the health and care of the Chinese people and the citizens of other nations.Chinese officials would have the world believe the novel virus originated anywhere but China, and the government refuses to accept any responsibility for its actions that directly caused the scale of the spread of the virus worldwide along with its attendant human suffering. A Chinese official lashed out and ridiculously accused the U.S. Army of bringing the virus to China.Chinese officials seem to have since settled on pushing the myth that China has detected coronavirus on frozen products, including chicken wings from Brazil, squid from Russia, shrimp from Ecuador, pork from Germany, salmon from Norway, and beef from Brazil, Bolivia, and New Zealand. In the latest round of disinformation, Chinese state media is blaming COVID-19 on imports of Australian steak.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has been clear: “Currently, there is no evidence to suggest that handling food or consuming food is associated with COVID-19.” There is consensus on this point among medical experts from our ally nations.Western media should stop reporting information from Chinese state media and Chinese officials about transmission rates, causes of infections, and the origins of the virus as though it is credible. Examples include articles about the supposed frozen food and infected workers mentioned above — and this Reuters article, titled “China says American troops may have brought Covid-19 to Wuhan.”There’s more. For its headline, CNN went with “China’s PLA Navy is controlling coronavirus and aircraft carrier’s deployment proves it, report says,” which has since been changed due to outcry. USA Today published this doozy, called “This is what China did to beat coronavirus. Experts say America couldn’t handle it,” and NBC ran with “As Covid-19 runs riot across the world, China controls the pandemic.”It isn’t enough for reporters to include a disclaimer saying the claims have not been checked. There is no doubt the assertions are baseless and politically motivated to harm the accused country and deflect blame from the CCP for the origins and scale of the COVID-19 pandemic.The CCP has restricted the publication of academic research on the origins of the novel coronavirus. Therefore, when Chinese “disease researchers” offer quotes or scientific findings, it is only because the regime has vetted and approved them.We know what happens when doctors simply try to reveal critical information or shine a light on the abusive censorship of Chinese authorities. Dr. Ai Fen, an emergency unit director at Wuhan Central Hospital, publicly criticized the hospital’s management for dismissing early warnings of the coronavirus. Like the whistleblower Dr. Li Wenliang, whom media reports claim died of COVID-19, CCP authorities reprimanded Ai when she tried to warn about the emerging epidemic.Ai said Li’s death was one reason she decided to speak out. “If I could have known, I would have told everyone, even though I was warned. I have thought many times — if only time could be turned back,” she said. (The U.K. Guardian posted an even more aggressive translation of her remarks: “If I had known what was to happen, I would not have cared about the reprimand. I would have f-cking talked about it to whoever, wherever I could.”)According to “60 Minutes Australia,” shortly after her public interviews, Li disappeared. In April, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Foreign Minister Marise Payne joined the United States in its calls to get to the bottom of the COVID-19 origins, publicly urging an international investigation and for China to allow transparency in the process.Payne also joined the United States in questioning the credibility of the World Health Organization (WHO), saying she did not believe the WHO should run the inquiry. “It will need parties, countries to come to the table with a willingness to be transparent and to engage in that process and to ensure that we have a review mechanism in which the international community can have faith,” she said.Almost immediately, China’s ambassador warned that Australia’s calls for a true, thorough international investigation would result in China punishing Australia economically by consumer boycotts of students and tourists visiting Australia, and in boycotting sales of popular agricultural exports, such as beef and wine. The result has been much more than a “consumer boycott.” The Chinese government issued a blacklist, according to Bloomberg News, which was delivered verbally to commodities traders. It covered coal, barley, copper, sugar, timber, wine, and lobster.Then in November, Chinese regulators imposed heavy tariffs on Australian wines, slapping duties of between 107.1 and 212.1 percent imports. In an expression of solidarity with Australia against the punitive tariffs, the National Security Council announced it will be serving Australian wine at its holiday reception. Solidarity among the nations of the free world and courage like Australia’s will certainly be needed as China becomes more entrenched in its refusal to cooperate and as Beijing’s disinformation campaign rages on.Despite U.S. and Aussie doubts about the credibility of the WHO, the organization formed an international team in September to “investigate” and build on China’s findings. Last week, the United Nations convened a meeting of world leaders on the COVID-19 pandemic, but U.S. officials said it was essentially a charade designed to allow Beijing to spread CCP propaganda.The two-day meeting of the U.N. General Assembly began Thursday with some 53 heads of state, 39 heads of government, and 38 ministers who made pre-recorded video statements. China was not held accountable, nor was the CCP’s misinformation campaign thwarted.Simply including China in multilateral organizations without demanding it meet basic standards of responsible behavior and transparency merely empowers the CCP. The Trump administration was right to continue raising questions about the origins of the pandemic and the CCP’s behavior, and the Australians are bravely holding the line by insisting on a credible international investigation and at great cost. All countries should be making the same demand.In the meantime, China should be denied platforms — through the media and international forums — to spread its corrupting lies.People of faith have been demanding religious freedom since lockdowns began in March. In the pages of the press, in the courts, and in the streets, churches have declared that opening their doors is “essential” — and they were right. According to a new poll, mental health has tanked across the board during this year of mayhem, except for one group: those who regularly attend church.According to the results of a new Gallup self-assessment survey, Americans’ mental health is at its lowest point in two decades, with the number of those who reported positive emotional or mental well-being down a whole 9 percentage points from just last year. While the degree of changes in mental health varied among different groups, quality declined among every demographic — men, women, Democrats, Republicans, whites, non-whites, rich, poor, married, and unmarried — except for devout religious people.Remarkably, faithful churchgoers were the only people who reported improvements in mental health since last year. For those who reported weekly attendance at religious services, 46 percent reported their mental health as “excellent,” up four points from 42 percent in 2019.For people of religious conviction, this is completely unsurprising. In fact, it’s one of the reasons Christians resisted tyrannical COVID-19 orders that discriminated against churches. Church is always necessary for believers, but it has been especially critical throughout the tribulations of a year that included violent riots, a global pandemic, and a contentious election, among other things. While many people’s suffering increased exponentially in 2020, economically, physically, and spiritually, they needed the hope that only the gospel can afford — but often found the church’s doors closed.“Our society is crumbling. Our values and what this nation was built on — we’re losing all of those,” Greg Fairrington, the lead pastor of Destiny Church in the Sacramento area, told The Federalist in August.“People are losing their jobs, people are losing loved ones, and they can’t have a memorial service. They can’t have a wedding,” Fairrington said. “The church is so much needed in this moment — we’ve got to open the doors of the church.” The data now bears this out.For a time, of course, churches were right to comply with government orders that halted their gatherings, as we learned more about the coronavirus, but not anymore. As isolation, mental illness, and suicide rise, the message is clear: We need church.The national suicide hotline is 1-800-273-8255. More resources are here.As if the data on mental well-being were not enough to show the importance of church gatherings, power-hungry and anti-religious officeholders have tipped their hand when it comes to pandemic safety, demonstrating they are far more worried about keeping Christians out of the pews than they are about actually keeping people safe.One Democratic governor used state power to surveil church attendees, sanctioning law enforcement to record their license plate numbers to issue quarantine orders. Before signaling his approval of mass Black Lives Matter protests, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio threatened to permanently close churches that held services. The City of Los Angeles threatened Grace Community Church Pastor John MacArthur with a daily $1,000 fine or the pastor’s arrest if the church wouldn’t stop meeting indoors for worship.Nevada Gov. Steve Sisolak’s Wuhan virus executive order discriminated against churches while propping up secular gatherings, such as casinos. The latter were permitted to open at half capacity, while the former were restricted to 50 people, regardless of venue size. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo likewise imposed exorbitant and discriminate limitations on religious gatherings. These are but a few examples among many.Even as the pandemic continues, Americans must decide whether they are willing to sacrifice their spiritual — and, as the survey shows, their mental and emotional — well-being in the hopes of preserving their physical health. Every departure from one’s home, each human interaction, and every essential errand carries with it a certain amount of risk, and church is no exception. We might contract a virus in a church pew, yes, but we might also contract it on a trip to the grocery store. What does it say about our conviction when we’re more afraid of church than we are of Costco? What does it say about our faith when we fear illness more than we fear God?As the wellness of our souls and minds declines by the day, and our leaders demonstrate consistent animus toward our values, we must recognize that the benefits of church far outweigh the costs. We were right: Church has always been essential.It’s time for another piece detailing all the “easter eggs” from the latest episodes of “The Mandalorian.” This go-around, we get to dig deep into the old Expanded Universe, classic Japanese cinema, and learn more about some of the best characters in all of “Star Wars” lore.Directed by “Star Wars” veteran and fan-favorite Dave Filoni, this episode is chock-full of nods and references to other “Star Wars” properties, inspirations for the series, and features a great cameo from an icon of the 1980s cinema.Ahsoka Tano — At this point, Ahsoka Tano is so much more than an easter egg. If you want to know more about my favorite “Star Wars” character, check out the earlier things I’ve written about her here, here, and here. There are several moments she has in this episode, however, which act as great easter eggs for additional things.First of all, her coming out of the smoke and darkness of the forest at the opening of this episode is almost identical to the final scene of 2016’s “Rogue One” where Darth Vader comes out of the smoke and darkness in a corridor to slaughter a small band of rebels in utterly epic fashion.Second, Ahsoka’s appearance through most of this episode in the hood may be a reference to the last times we’ve seen her on-screen. At the end of “Star Wars: Rebels,” she’s seen in a cloak much like this one when she greets Sabine Wren. Also, at the end of the final episode of “Clone Wars,” Ahsoka is wearing a similar cloak as she buries her dead Clone Trooper friends.Michael Biehn — The town law enforcer is played by none other than the great Michael Biehn. I’ll be honest, I almost didn’t recognize him, but this in fact the same man who served as a star of many great action and sci-fi films in the 1980s and 1990s. He was in “Aliens,” the original “Terminator,” and even “Tombstone.”Magistrate Morgan Elsbeth — The administrator of Calodan, the town that Ahsoka and Mando liberate as part of this episode is Morgan Elsbeth, played by renowned stuntwoman Diana Lee Inosanto. Elsbeth is from the planet Dathomir, a planet well-known to viewers of the “Star Wars” cartoons, or anyone who has played the video games. It also happens to be the home planet to Darth Maul and the giant Rancor who almost eats Luke Skywalker in 1983’s “Return of the Jedi.”Shogun Style — This entire episode is a nod to the Akira Kurosawa films that inspired the original “Star Wars” in the first place. What makes “The Mandalorian” unique from other “Star Wars” properties in the post-George Lucas era, is that Jon Favreau and Dave Filoni have made a point that they are taking inspiration not just from “Star Wars” itself, but from the things that inspired George Lucas to create the series more than 40 years ago.“The Jedi” creatively borrows from “Yojimbo,” a 1961 film written and directed by Kurosawa in which a traveling ronin frees a town from criminal gangs. Kurosawa’s style can also be seen in the architecture of this episode, from the arches to the Japanese-like garden where the final showdown takes place. This episode is Filoni’s love letter to those films, which Lucas has said had a profound impact on the original idea for “Star Wars.”Assassin Droids — The droids that Elsbeth uses to hunt down Ahsoka and Mando in the streets of the city are HK-87 assassin droids. This is a reference to the HK-47 droid that features prominently in the now non-canon game, “Knights of the Old Republic.” Filoni has already taken several elements from that game that are popular with the “Star Wars” fanbase and incorporated them into his past projects. It’s nice to see him throw fans a bone here in “The Mandalorian” as well.Morai — As Mando is walking through the scorched forest looking for Ahsoka, we get a brief glimpse of Morai, a female Convor bird that has been closely tied to Ahsoka ever since “The Daughter,” one of the Mortis gods, gave her life to save Ahsoka during the “Clone Wars” cartoon series. Previously, Morai made an animated appearance in “Rebels,” and now made her live-action debut in “The Mandalorian.” I could write an epic tome just about Ahsoka and her relationship with Morai, but I won’t…at least not yet. Just know that when you see this bird, Ahsoka Tano isn’t far behind.Grogu’s Rescue — Ahsoka mentions that Grogu was a student at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant but was rescued by someone. This is perhaps the biggest mystery now posed by this episode. If you’ll remember back to the “Revenge of the Sith,” Anakin Skywalker killed most everyone in the Jedi Temple after he became Darth Vader, including Younglings the developmental level of Grogu.There were only a few Jedi who could have gotten him out. It may have been Yoda himself if Grogu was able to hide until Yoda arrived at the Temple. It could also have been Jocasta Nu, the Jedi librarian who we know escaped the Temple but was later killed by Darth Vader. A really interesting theoretical, however, is if was Grogu not saved by a Jedi, but instead by Darth Vader, the Grand Inquisitor, or even Emperor Palpatine? This possible scenario may explain why Ahsoka doesn’t want to train The Child.Obi-Wan Kenobi’s Line — At one point when Ahsoka is talking to Mando about The Force, she uses the exact same line that Obi-Wan Kenobi used to Luke Skywalker in the original “Star Wars” film. She says that the Force is “an energy field created by all living things.” We get the exact same explanation from Obi-Wan as he begins to educate Luke in the ways of the Force.A-350 Blaster Rifles — These rifles are the successor to the A-300 blaster rifles that the Rebels use all throughout the Galactic Civil War. They can be seen prominently in “Rogue One” on the Battle of Scarif.Grand Admiral Thrawn — This was, despite the naming of Baby Yoda, this episode’s biggest moment. Grand Admiral Thrawn will be familiar to anyone who read a “Star Wars” novel in the early 1990s and was the main antagonist in a series of stories by author Timothy Zahn.A member of the Chiss race from the Unknown Regions of the “Star Wars” galaxy, Thrawn, whose full name is Mitth’raw’nurodo, was a Grand Admiral in the Imperial Navy. His blue skin and red eyes made him stand out in a crowd. He was one of the few people who the Emperor truly respected, and one of a very select group who knew the true identity of Darth Vader.Thrawn is — without much debate — the smartest, most cunning, and richest villain ever created for the “Star Wars” universe. He doesn’t have the force powers of Darth Vader, but his keen intellect could tie knots around any opponent. When he was brought back into canon as part of Dave Filoni’s “Star Wars: Rebels” series, Thrawn became the show’s Big Bad for the final seasons. At the end of that series, young Jedi Ezra Bridger sent Thrawn, himself, and the admiral’s star destroyer into the Unknown Regions as part of a wayward hyperspace jump. He hasn’t been seen since, but it seems like this episode is a clue that we will soon see the Grand Admiral in the live-action “Star Wars” universe.Tython — It’s fascinating that Dave Filoni chose to bring the planet Tython into “The Mandalorian.” Tython was, in the old Expanded Universe, the birthplace of the Jedi. In the new canon, it’s a planet that has been visited by Darth Vader in the “Star Wars” comics, and it houses the remains of an ancient Jedi Temple.This chapter of Mando’s story features one gut punch after another. Directed by legendary cinematic maestro Robert Rodriguez, it features nods to earlier episodes in the series, old favorites from the Original Trilogy, and another famous George Lucas property. Ready?Blue Butterflies — When Grogu first sits down on the Seeing Stone on the planet Tython he’s treated by blue butterflies. At first, they may not seem like anything special, but blue butterflies have served as messengers in “Star Wars” lore. I don’t think it’s a coincidence that Grogu is supposed to be reaching out through the Force to find a Jedi and is immediately greeted by insects that represent messengers. In the past blue butterflies have even appeared to Ben Solo, who became Kyo Ten, the key antagonist of the Sequel Trilogy. Could Ben Solo be the Jedi who answers? Probably not. Depending upon exactly when “The Mandalorian” takes place, Ben Solo is little more than a toddler, but it is an interesting connection.Slave I — As Mando and Grogu sit atop the Temple and hope for The Child to reach out to a Jedi, we see a ship fly into view. That ship is the infamous Salve I, flown first by Jango Fett, and for a long time now by his son, Boba Fett. This was one of the most iconic ship designs of the Original Trilogy. The way it flew and landed were unique, and its design is unmistakable. It’s a heavily armed bounty hunter’s vessel with missiles, multiple guns, and even prison cells to keep his bounties.Boba Fett — If you’re even a casual fan of “Star Wars,” you probably know who Boba Fett is. A legendary bounty hunter from the Original Trilogy, and a minor character in the prequels, Boba Fett was the one who brought in Han Solo and gave him to Jaba the Hutt. The last we saw of the man in his Mandalorian armor, he was being swallowed whole by the Sarlacc in the Great Pit of Carkoon during the battle at the beginning of 1983’s “Return of the Jedi.” We did see a brief glimpse of him in the closing frames of “The Marshall” at the beginning of this season, but we didn’t know until now, that it was in fact him.We learn a lot about him, and his father, the bounty hunter Jango Fett in this episode. There was plenty of debate in the Star Wars community whether or not the Fett’s were true Mandalorians or if they were merely imposters. In “The Tragedy,” we find out that Jango Fett was indeed a Foundling, just like Mando is. In fact, towards the end of the episode when Boba Fett is showing Mando his chain code that is embedded in his armor, he shows him some Mandalorian text. Because (of course) there are people on the internet who know the Mandalorian alphabet, several have translated the text we see in this episode, which leads us to the reveal of another big legends character, but we’ll get to that in a minute…Fennec Shand — Boba Fett brings with him someone from season one of “The Mandalorian”: sharpshooter Fennec Shand, last seen left for dead in the Tatooine desert after she was shot by Toro Calican. If you’re an avid reader of this column, you’ll remember that I analyzed the sound of the boots of the man in black we saw walking up to her body at the end of that episode and said that the sound exactly matched that of Boba Fett from his appearance in “Empire Strikes Back.” Well, it turns out that was him, and he saved Shand.Gaffi Stick — The weapon Boba Fett uses with such epic ferocity in this episode to demolish one Stormtrooper after another is a Gaffi Stick, the traditional melee weapon of the Tusken Raiders found on Tatooine. Up until now, we haven’t seen anyone do much with one, but Boba Fett absolutely decimates a squad of Stormtroopers with it, splitting some of their helmets in half.The “Indiana Jones” Boulder — At one point in this episode, while battling the Stormtroopers, Fennec Shand kicks loose a large boulder that rolls downhill and runs over several Stormtroopers as they run from it. This is a direct reference to the second most famous property that George Lucas helped create, “Indiana Jones.” In the original “Raiders of the Lost Ark,” movie, Indiana Jones is chased by a giant boulder as he tries to flee a jungle temple at the beginning of the movie. And, I have to say, watching this boulder crush Imperial troopers is strangely cathartic.Boba Fett’s Knee Rockets — Once Boba Fett gains his armor back, he uses his famous knee rockets to kill a group of Stormtroopers. The coolest of knee-related accessories used to be filled with a deadly poison in the old Expanded Universe. Whatever they’re filled with here, they pack a wallop, and several Stormtroopers have the misfortune to be on the receiving end.Atmospheric Assault Lander — The ship that the Stormtroopers land in is an early version of the First Order’s Atmospheric Assault Lander (AAL). We first saw these in the opening moments of the J.J. Abrams’s “The Force Awakens,” on Jakku.Dark Troopers — Glimpsed in a previous episode this season, this is the real debut of Dark Troopers into the new canon of “Star Wars.” Originally designed for the 1995 video game “Dark Forces,” Dark Troopers began as augmented Clone Troopers but eventually evolved into combat droids. The Dark Troopers we see here are much closer to the combat droid version from the old Expanded Universe. If they’re anything like those old droids, in addition to the flight abilities they show off in this episode, they’re also heavily armed, and quite difficult to kill. If Moff Gideon has a ship full of these Dark Troopers, that will make for a truly formidable obstacle for our heroes to overcome if they want to rescue The Child.Jaster Mereel — Remember that Mandalorian text I mentioned? Buried within that text is a mention of Jaster Mereel, a legendary Mandalorian Warrior, who served as a mentor for Jango Fett in the old Expanded Universe. Jaster was once the ruler of Mandalore and hails from Concord Dawn, the same homeworld as Jango Fett. You’ll recognize that planet name from episodes of “The Clone Wars” and “Rebels.” If Favreau and Filoni are re-canonizing Jaster, it opens up a number of exciting doors for further exploration of the background and history of the Fetts.Millions of families have been confronted with on-again, off-again public school schedules and the physically draining and mentally challenging chore of spending hours in front of a screen. Their concerns rise above and beyond the threat of getting COVID-19 — there’s a general, and understandable, desire to safeguard children from unsettling uncertainties. In response, millions have turned to home schooling to help their children learn.Conducted for nearly six months from April through October, the National U.S. Census Pulse Survey found millions of children were home schooling. My organization, the Home School Legal Defense Association, has seen unparalleled interest and an uptick in membership. Indeed, while public school systems are lamenting declining enrollment numbers by the tens of thousands as parents pull the plug on “Zoom school,” nearly every home school-related business reports unprecedented increases in demand for their products and services,For decades, home schooling has been a small, but steadily growing movement. Over time, it has racked-up impressive and positive results, despite those outcomes being under-reported and under-researched. Research has shown that home-schooled children are as socially competent as their peers, are as successful in higher education, and are more politically tolerant.The academic success of home-schooled children continues to shine through, as home-schooled children perform better on standardized achievement tests and often have higher college GPAs. College admissions officers have routinely expressed that home-schooled students show up better prepared to learn and can “hit the ground running.”Unfortunately, since its inception as a community-based and parent-led form of instruction, public education has changed dramatically. From its humble well-intentioned roots, it’s becoming a big-government monopoly. Studies have shown that public school systems allocate far less money to classroom instruction compared to administrative overhead, have become ever more bureaucratic, and are overly focused on standardization.Yet, even with many good people involved trying to do the best they can for children, national polls show increasing dissatisfaction with public education. The current disruption of education shows that replicating the in-school model through Zoom may not be the best approach. But as schools try to figure this out, parents are voting with their feet and are finding a welcome home in the home schooling community.Home schooling has always offered more flexibility, child focus, and parent involvement. These are key contributors to its positive outcomes. As steadily increasing numbers of parents experience these benefits and embrace home schooling for the long term, I expect to see more satisfaction in families and children who are home schooling.It is certainly the case that home schooling may not be for everyone, but it must always be freely available to anyone. While there may be a place for government-run education, there must always be a place for educational freedom in our pluralistic, diverse society.History has shown what catastrophes can happen when government controls and dictates what is taught, how it is taught, and how it is measured. Today, current evidence shows how even modern democracies can lose their way by thinking that more government control of education is good for society.In his crusade to crack down on Islamic radicalism and separatism, President Emmanuel Macron of France recently announced he wants to erase the possibility of home schooling and even jail parents who dare to home school. The problem is that there is little evidence to link home schooling to Islamic radicalism or separatism in any way. Germany has been notorious for years in its hostility to home schooling, resulting in the flight of thousands of families to other countries so that they can homeschool freely.There is good news, however, in some places like Brazil, where home schooling is growing rapidly. The Bolsonaro administration is championing the cause of home schooling with supportive legislation that also maintains home-schooled kids would required to be vaccinated and pass national testing to stay home-schooled. Seizing the moment, home school advocates in Brazil are hopeful the Federal Congress will make home schooling an explicit alternative to school soon.Ultimately, education is more than school attendance, graduation rates, and test scores. Education is not just about creating docile citizens who vote and get a job — it is about empowering individuals to achieve their highest potential. Education is a process whereby a person accumulates knowledge, understanding, and awareness of his or her unique capacity, interests, and notions of fulfillment.A robust and socially accepted home schooling movement is good for America because it supports the very ideals of pluralism and self-governance that form the pillars of our nation. At its core, an enduring America requires a robust defense of creativity, personal liberty, and innovation. Home schooling is a straight road to these goals and one that should be freely available always to everyone, everywhere.New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo received another award for his mishandling of COVID-19 in his state, which included making courageous decisions like keeping schools closed despite the science and directing positive COVID-19 patients into nursing homes, leading to thousands of preventable deaths.Cuomo announced on Twitter Wednesday he would receive the Edward M. Kennedy Award for Inspired Leadership.“I learned about humanity, leadership and putting people first from the great Senator Ted Kennedy,” he tweeted.I am honored to receive the 2020 Edward M. Kennedy Institute Award for Inspired Leadership. I learned about humanity, leadership and putting people first from the great Senator Ted Kennedy.Congratulations to my fellow recipient Gov. Charlie Baker.— Andrew Cuomo (@NYGovCuomo) December 10, 2020The institute gifting Cuomo the award is named in honor of former Democrat Sen. Edward M. Kennedy who, in the 1969 Chappaquiddick incident, drove into a tidal pond where his car sank, killing 28-year-old Mary Jo Kopechne who was in the car with him. Kennedy did not report the crash until the next day and was eventually charged with leaving the scene of the accident.Cuomo’s announcement received backlash from some who noted that Cuomo’s so-called “leadership” actually killed people, similar to Kennedy.Everyone is upset about this, but I assume, given who it’s named after, that this is an award for killing people and getting away with it. https://t.co/Ij1ItXgefI— Mollie (@MZHemingway) December 10, 2020I mean it is an award named after a man who killed a woman by driving off a bridge, so makes sense https://t.co/zds2MZ8KMf— Ben Shapiro (@benshapiro) December 10, 2020It’s only fitting for Andrew Cuomo to win the Ted Kennedy award.He left people gasping for air as they died while media sycophants looked the other way so to not hinder a future presidential run. https://t.co/xIqeyObpvx— Giancarlo Sopo (@GiancarloSopo) December 10, 2020Was the award ceremony held virtually or at Chappaquiddick? https://t.co/1GLADmrnzA— JERRY DUNLEAVY (@JerryDunleavy) December 10, 2020Just last month, Cuomo received an international Emmy Award for his use of television to communicate with New Yorkers during the COVID-19 pandemic.“People around the world tuned in to find out what was going on, and New York tough became a symbol of determination to fight back,” International Academy President and CEO Bruce Paisner said in a statement.The decision to choose Cuomo as a recipient was mocked by many who noted that the governor has still yet to answer or take responsibility for his mandate requiring COIVD-19-positive patients to return from hospitals to their nursing homes.Despite the media and elite institutions lauding propping up Cuomo, his popularity with New Yorkers is falling. A new poll from Siena College found that since October, Cuomo’s favorability ratings have fallen at least three percent, bringing his popularity down from 59 percent to 56 percent. Approximately 39 percent of New Yorkers do not find Cuomo favorable at all.Cuomo announced on Twitter Wednesday he would receive the Edward M. Kennedy Award for Inspired Leadership.Students at Eton are pushing back against cancel culture and showing young people appreciate critical thinking and a free exchange of ideas.Former President Barack Obama accused Hispanic voters of being bigots, claiming that CONTINUE READING >Democrat Rep. Jim Cooper is backtracking on his comments likening South Carolina CONTINUE READING >Rep. Jim Cooper said South Carolina voters have “extra chromosomes” for supporting Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham’s re-election.During the lockdown regime of the past year, millions of Americans turned to their televisions, computers, and phone screens to escape despair. Because we are creatures of innovation and curiosity, however, many people taught themselves to make sourdough bread starters from the internet and something new the next day.The bread-baking game got so out of hand at one point this summer that yeast vanished from grocery store shelves. The appetite for hobbies, knowledge, and bread was ferocious.Suddenly barred from dining out, the gastronomically inclined turned to their own kitchens, ordered new tools from the internet, and taught themselves culinary tricks. Social media overflowed with images of the burgeoning class of new home chefs, spurned from their favorite table at Le Diplomate but finally finding joy in sipping Gamay at home while searing their first-ever magret de canard.It takes a nearly perfect combination of skill, approachability, and charisma to hook an audience the way Julia Child did, but one cooking channel stood above the rest, garnering millions of loyal followers even before the pandemic. Bon Appetit’s “Test Kitchen” series on YouTube seemed to truly understand people’s modern need for a combination of real instruction with a willingness to fail.Even in the vast sea of online cooking shows, this one stood out. Imagine the natural give and take of NBC’s enormously popular sitcom “Friends” in a cooking show. That was the vibe from the bright and engaging stars of the “Test Kitchen.”Even with all its charisma and promise, however, Bon Appetit couldn’t stave off the death grip of leftist ideology. It became one more source of entertainment and inspiration relegated to the burning cultural heap just when Americans most needed a pandemic and political escape.In its first episode, food editor Claire Saffitz delighted viewers in her “Gourmet Makes” segments in repeated attempts to reproduce a gourmet Twinkie. This episode received more than 6 million views on YouTube. In another episode, Saffitz and her team reproduced Bagel Bites. Other episodes featured attempts at Oreos, Skittles, and Pringles.Brad Leone kicked off the channel’s success with his series of “It’s Alive!” videos that started out as small, experimental time-lapsed videos of Leone showing viewers different recipes made with living foods. It’s science, yes, and on paper, it even sounds like something that might air at 3:00 a.m. on cable access, but Leone made the videos a must-watch with his floppy hair, backward baseball cap, and disinterest in precise measurements. Whether the final product would taste delicious or explode upon opening was a common concern.The formula of the show’s success was based on being sometimes chaotic and always unscripted, with the many mistakes left in the final product. The episodes featured frequent cameos from Bon Appetit chefs who popped by to offer advice.With its gleaming marble countertops and massive 35th-floor view from One World Trade Center in downtown Manhattan, the “Test Kitchen” set was exactly the visual tonic America needed. Bon Appetit became the fastest-growing food-related channel on YouTube, enjoying 40 million monthly views, more than 5 million subscribers, and more than 5 billion minutes watched.Bon Appetit’s cooking channel should have been one of the bright spots during the pandemic. It should have been a common, nonpolitical intersection where we could all just laugh about yet again ruining our attempt at latkes. At first, it was just that. The Bon Appetit crew adapted almost seamlessly from the high-rise to their home kitchens across the tri-state area. Gleaming stainless cooking surfaces were replaced with cramped quarters, but the stars still shone just as bright.But in a flash, the “Friends” vibe was dead, and so was the Bon Appetit cooking channel.It was murdered in June 2020 by a furious spasm of wokism aimed at Bon Appetit and its publisher, Conde Nast. Both magazine and publisher were accused of insensitivity to employees of any color but peach. There were also accusations of “cultural insensitivity,” disparities in compensation, ill-treatment in the workplace, and tokenism.The unraveling began just after the May 25 killing of George Floyd in police custody. The once-lionized editor of Bon Appetit, Adam Rapoport, resigned June 8 following the release of a photo taken 16 years ago, reportedly showing him in “brownface” at a costume party. He denied he had altered his face color, but continued internal denunciation made his continued leadership impossible. Weeks after the initial controversy, eight Bon Appetit “Test Kitchen” star chefs, the heart and soul of the show’s success, announced they would no longer appear on the program.Like many other companies, Bon Appetit felt compelled to declare “solidarity” with the rapidly emerging Black Lives Matter movement, publishing, “Here at BA, we’re often talking about recipes, cooking techniques, and emerging restaurants … but we also understand that food is inherently political.”At the lowest point in 2020, as the nation ripped in two politically and stared down a dark tunnel of lockdowns and financial ruin, the cheerful Bon Appetit YouTube channel went silent. They would not post another new video for four months, leaving us with their last-ever upload from the cast we all grew to love, “Pro Chefs Improve Boxed Brownies.”Bon Appetit promised that followers could expect to see “more stories from restaurant owners and staff at the front lines of these protests” and more attention paid to black-owned food businesses. The magazine said it would be “tackling more of the racial and political issues at the core of the food world” and encouraged followers to donate to race-based organizations.The statement wasn’t that dissimilar from statements made by many other organizations. What the editors at Bon Appetit did not expect was the backlash. Apparently, minority employees of the magazine harbored long-standing grievances. To them, Bon Appetit’s newfound religion smacked of hypocrisy, and they wasted no time letting the world know.As the weeks unfolded and Black Lives Matter came to dominate the national conversation, Bon Appetit began fighting a losing battle. Every time it made a greater commitment to inclusion and racial sensitivity, demands grew and new charges erupted. Charges of unequal pay and mistreatment evolved into charges of “cultural appropriation.” Heads continued to roll.Then after the months-long silence, the Bon Appetit YouTube channel flickered back to life, but the new videos only cemented what many had come to fear: The channel, which abandoned her fans when they needed her most, returned as a Frankenstein’s monster.The first video wasn’t about cooking. It featured no levity except that which was written into the carefully produced segment. The charm was gone. It was just an introductory video from the new leadership team: executive editor Sonia Chopra, global brand adviser chef Marcus Samuelsson, and editor-in-chief Dawn Davis.The three new faces discussed terms such as “food inequity” and promised a heightened focus on skin color for future content, but what they have delivered appears to be the opposite. In a strike to avoid accusations of “cultural appropriation,” it seems, the new channel has relegated chefs to creating recipes on camera that seem to correlate with their skin color and apparent ethnicity.I guess it probably sounded OK to tell the white chefs they can’t cook Jamaican Escovitch, but it seems a bad look to see Sophia Roe, an Indian woman who has no doubt worked hard as a chef to get where she is, only to be cast in a video making curry.Bon Appetit might not have a grasp on “food equity” either. The content of the new videos has departed from whimsical takes on comfort food and heavenly recipes for sour cream and scallion biscuits to vegan versions of dishes and how to slow-roast goat. I know a lot of people who have gotten into biscuits during the pandemic. I don’t know any who have decided to start braising goat.Ingredients in the videos made the jump from “everyday” to “unusual,” again putting a question to the repeated promise of “food equity” from the magazine’s new leadership team. Breadfruit is great for all the viewers in tropical areas, but for the majority of the audience, it’s simply not available. Fried oyster mushrooms seem simple enough, but that ingredient doesn’t appear outside of urban markets or specialty grocers.The newest viewer numbers reflect the failure of Bon Appetit’s relaunch. The channel easily captured millions of views per video prior to the fallout, regardless of who hosted the show. The most popular video since the channel came back to life in October is “Brad and Andy Grill Garbage Fish,” which was the first video featuring Leone in several months. After more than a month online, it has not yet gotten a million views, something that used to happen within a week.The second most popular video from the new era was the first Bon Appetit pushed out: “Test Kitchen” director Chris Morocco making “weeknight meatballs.” Between the simplistic cooking instructions and complaints about his missing blender, Morocco managed to create one of the saddest cooking videos ever committed to the internet.From his new home in Pennsylvania, he looked sadly into the camera and gave some vague pledge of having feelings for what happened at Bon Appetit — then, on to boring meatballs. That video has 792,000 views. With rare exceptions — videos featuring Leone — everything since then has been a fraction of that.Leone, the show’s original star who kicked off the popularity of the videos, remains in place for now, but it’s impossible not to see his role has diminished. Once credited as the “Manager of the BA Test Kitchen,” Leone now dutifully introduces himself above a tag that says, “BA Video Host.” The first “It’s Alive!” with Leone after nearly five months of hiatus was, almost poetically, about how to compost garbage.The collapse of the Bon Appetit channel during a pandemic-fueled cooking craze proved the screeching power of outrage mob rule. The entire saga has made one thing clear: You can politicize everything, as the mob demands, or you can create a vibrant, innovative culture — but you can’t have both.President Donald Trump and his administration facilitated another historic breakthrough for peace in the Middle East on Thursday between Morocco and Israel who have agreed to normalize relations. Trump announced the deal on Twitter, noting the major victory in foreign policy for all countries involved.According to Trump, Morocco’s King Mohammed VI agreed that his country would “resume diplomatic relations between Morocco and Israel and expand economic and cultural cooperation to advance regional stability.”The deal not only ensures the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries after ties were cut off in 2000, but will also allow flights between the two countries, sounder business connections, and the promise of establishing embassies.Another HISTORIC breakthrough today! Our two GREAT friends Israel and the Kingdom of Morocco have agreed to full diplomatic relations – a massive breakthrough for peace in the Middle East!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 10, 2020Trump also declared that Morrocco maintains its sovereignty over Western Sahara, an area once controlled by Spain and disputed by its indigenous population, saying that it was essential for “enduring peace and prosperity.”“Today, I signed a proclamation recognizing Moroccan sovereignty over Western Sahara,” Trump wrote. “Morocco’s serious, credible, and realistic autonomy proposal is the ONLY basis for a just and lasting solution for enduring peace and prosperity!”Today, I signed a proclamation recognizing Moroccan sovereignty over the Western Sahara.  Morocco's serious, credible, and realistic autonomy proposal is the ONLY basis for a just and lasting solution for enduring peace and prosperity!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 10, 2020The president noted the significance of Morocco’s history with the U.S., when they recognized the U.S. as a country shortly after its independence from Great Britain in 1776.Morocco recognized the United States in 1777.  It is thus fitting we recognize their sovereignty over the Western Sahara.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 10, 2020Currently, the U.S. is the “only Western country” to declare Morocco’s sovereignty over that area.Morocco is the fourth country of its kind to establish peace with Israel through the work of the U.S. The deal, according to Axios, was set in motion more than two years ago and was directly negotiated by Trump’s senior adviser Jared Kushner and special envoy Avi Berkowitz with Moroccan Foreign Minister Nasser Bourita. They now join the ranks with the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, and Sudan.“This is a significant step forward for the people of Israel and Morocco. It further enhances Israel’s security, while creating opportunities for Morocco and Israel to deepen their economic ties and improve the lives of their people,” Kushner said.In September, Trump signed The Abraham Accords, which ushered in the formal agreements between Israel and the United Arab Emirates, and Israel and Bahrain to establish diplomatic relations. Shortly after in October, the Trump administration announced Sudan would be removed from the State Sponsors of Terrorism list and began a partnership with the United States and Israel.The deal ensures the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between Israel and Morocco after ties were cut off in 2000. The prime minister of East Turkistan’s government in-exile, Salih Hudayar, is sounding the alarm on what an incoming Biden admin might mean for the Uyghurs.A reprioritization of America’s strategic interests would cement the legacy of the first president in the era of great-power rivalry. Whenever Trump leaves office, the GOP should flesh out elements of his agenda that went unfulfilled. Foremost among these should be foreign policy. ‘We were always playing shell games to not make clear to our leadership how many troops we had there,’ James Jeffrey said in an interview.The Federalist’s Mollie Hemingway says big tech and mainstream media conspired to shield voters from Joe Biden’s family corruption.“Nobody meddled in the 2020 election like a big media and big tech, and both of those things you saw with the Hunter Biden story,” Hemingway told Fox News’s Laura Ingraham Wednesday.While the media and the Biden-Harris transition team admitted on Wednesday that Biden’s son Hunter is under ongoing tax investigation by the Justice Department, Hemingway said it is far past time.“Yes, today, Hunter Biden himself says ‘it’s okay to cover this, it’s true, I’m under investigation’, but we actually knew that back in October and we knew that not just because it was reported that he was under investigation but we had that laptop,” Hemingway said. “We had the New York Post’s stories going into this. We had an eyewitness, somebody who was involved in the Biden family business saying there was what looked like a money laundering situation and at no point did anyone in the media cover it.”“He said himself he was interviewed by the FBI,” Hemingway noted. “We knew that was happening. For people to pretend like this is brand-new news — it’s not. They just went out of their way to suppress it on October 29th when it broke and it’s really disgusting what we’ve seen the media do.”The suppression, Hemingway noted, was purely political and directly connected to boosting Biden in the presidential election.“[The media] were intentionally suppressing it because they didn’t want any negative information to come out about their candidates, knowing that would hurt his election chances,” Hemingway continued. “In addition to that, big tech willfully suppressed the story. Remember, Facebook said ‘We are not going to let anyone talk about this.’ Twitter banned links to stories about it. It’s so terrifying to think in this country we could have such a corrupt media and such censorship from big tech.”“Negative information would have suppressed the vote and they couldn’t afford that because they were willing to do anything it took to get their man elected,” she added.While the DOJ and FBI have reasons to keep certain information private unless, Hemingway noted, they wanted to leak collusion conspiracy theories peddled by the Democrat National Committee and Clinton campaign, the media has no excuses for why it didn’t cover Hunter Biden’s corruption until now.“I actually think it is appropriate for the Department of Justice and FBI to remain mum about this, but that is totally different than the media suppressing information that is in the public record,” Hemingway said. “There were these laptop issues, there were these stories The New Yorker had previously reported about 2.8-carat diamond that Hunter Biden had gotten, and these things were intentionally suppressed so people would not have a negative view of [Joe] Biden.”The information suppression, Mollie Hemingway noted, was purely political and directly connected to boosting Joe Biden in the presidential election.Amazon did not mention any specific reason why the former New York Times reporter’s booklet was removed in the first place.Sources such as CNN, The New York Times, NPR, and others benefitted from Zuckerberg’s changes, receiving more traffic and distribution on the site while conservative news artificially lost page views and reach. Some of the administrators are even considering stepping down from their leadership positions in the charity following the repeated removal of their accounts, said Vinessa Olp, the charity’s co-founder.The academic insisted that allowing research into coerced childhood gender surgeries was fascist, and book burnings were not.The following essay is part of The Federalist’s 1620 Project, a symposium exploring the connections and contributions of the early Pilgrim and Puritan settlers in New England to the uniquely American synthesis of faith, family, freedom, and self-government.Come, my friends, ‘Tis not too late to seek a newer world … To sail beyond the sunset, and the baths of all the western stars. – “Ulysses,” Alfred Lord TennysonDuring the last month, contributors to The Federalist’s 1620 Project have demonstrated the resounding influence and positive legacy of the Pilgrims of the Mayflower and subsequent early sojourners to New England, such as the Puritans. Indeed, one can go far before overstating their invaluable endowment to the foundations of the American character.The Pilgrims and emerging New Englanders made an additional contribution to the formation of the American ethos that is worth expanding upon, however: the daring, intrepid, and risk-taking qualities of those who settled in the northeast coast of what would become the United States. The resolve to pull up stakes and strike out into the perilous unknown — and the faith and fortitude to follow through on it — is an inspirational cultural debt we owe to the first early Pilgrims and New England settlers.If instead of religious, freedom-seeking, young family units, arrivals on the northern shores of the future American coast had been the unwed, flighty, gold-seeking ruffians of the Jamestown variety, the America that followed would have been remarkably different.While such a divergent alternative history is hard to conceive, the adaptive, adventurous, and trailblazing traits of the American character would assuredly be underdeveloped — even dormant — had our Pilgrim ancestors been too risk-averse to leave the Old World, cross the Atlantic, and doggedly hone their innovative habits in the untamed wilds of New England.As Frederick Jackson Turner put it three centuries later, “Since the days when the fleet of Columbus sailed into the waters of the New World, America has been another name for opportunity.” The relatively sparse territory of the early 17th-century New England coast presented such an opportunity for the competent and resourceful — an opening the Mayflower Pilgrims seized.The vast majority of the English Pilgrims at Leiden, Holland — numbering around 300 — chose not to risk it all in a daring crossing the Atlantic Ocean. Those who did, however, were, by the nature of their willingness to embark on such a perilous and risky undertaking, precisely the sort able to survive, then adapt, then thrive in a New World of their forging.The early settlers of New England are, for Alexis de Tocqueville, the key to understanding America’s particular culture mores — a blend of equality, liberty, and religious faith. In his masterpiece “Democracy in America,” Tocqueville argues that, like Adam to the human race, the entirety of America’s destiny can be traced back to the first men and women to make landfall in modern-day Massachusetts.Neither poor nor fabulously wealthy, the majority of the Pilgrims were what could be deemed “middle-class.” They left comfort, safety, and stability to brave the unexplored. “By exposing themselves to the inevitable hardships of exile,” Tocqueville explains, “they wanted to assure the triumph of an idea.” These men, women, and children proved to be willing and able to tolerate unnumerable setbacks and trials, as long as they could worship God in their own way and live out their lives in freedom.The caricature of the Pilgrims and later Puritans as staid isolationists misses the mark. These folk weren’t pious sticks-in-the-mud — they were pious adventurers.Before they reached New England soil, the Pilgrims suffered a voyage few modern Americans could endure. After numerous delays and losing a ship, the Speedwell, to repairs, the Pilgrims’ ticket to the New World, the Mayflower, finally set sail from England in September 1620.It was not a ship built for transatlantic travel. At only 100 feet in length and 25 feet at her widest, the Mayflower was designed to cross the English Channel in short spurts, nothing more. “Cramped” does not begin to adequately describe the living quarters for the 102 passengers aboard, who had to share approximately 1,600 square feet of a wet, narrow hold amongst the ship’s largest timbers.At night, the passenger area was pitch dark. At most, there was five feet of headroom — and only four where supportive beams stretched across the low deck. Aromas of the stench of the passengers mixed with the smells of overly ripe cheese, poorly preserved meat, vinegar, and, soon after reaching the high seas, vomit.Of course, the challenges of a months-long winter crossing of the Atlantic in such an ill-suited vessel was only the beginning of the difficulties awaiting the Pilgrims. Even greater trials awaited them on cold, dry land.That the New England ground often froze by mid-November, and mere inches of snow made the terrain impenetrable without snowshoes were unwelcome hindrances to the Pilgrims, whose winters in England and Holland were far milder by comparison. Worse, as a few first Pilgrims disembarked the Mayflower to briefly explore Cape Cod, they felt the winter’s gale of what climatologists now refer to as the “Little Ice Age.” To their misfortune, the Pilgrims had made landfall during an exceptionally cold period that gripped the entirety of North America, and there was no turning back.By early December, temperatures were in the low 20s Fahrenheit — a prolonged, biting cold foreign to anything typically experienced back home. As noted by future Plymouth governor William Bradford in his first-hand account, the Pilgrims had heard tales of the unforgiving winters of the northern New World. Still, it was one thing to hear tales of such conditions, and another thing altogether to experience them.Furthermore, the Pilgrims headed into their venture truly alone. They knew no preexisting infrastructure or civilizational scaffolding would soften the blows of what faced them on the other end. They knew this, yet set out anyway. Bradford recalls:They had now no friends to welcome them, no inns to entertain or refresh them … and, for the season it was winter, and they that know the winters of the country, know them to be sharp and violent, subject to cruel and fierce storms, dangerous to travel to known places, much more to search unknown coasts. … the whole country full of woods and thickets, represented a wild and savage hue.No welfare systems nor expansive government-run social safety net was there to pick them up in hard times, nor to protect their embryonic, fragile settlements. Of course, they didn’t expect such things. During their first winter in the New World, they would need all of their resilience and all their faith to make it through. In addition, they’d have to be willing to welcome all the outside help they could get.With temperatures intolerably cold, little food, and sickness ravaging the fledgling settlement, Plymouth Colony’s outlook was bleak. During the darkest months of the winter of 1621, Bradford writes that there were, at most, six of seven able Pilgrims who had to tend to the vital needs of the entire colony. “Willingly and cheerfully” and “without any grudging in the least,” these few heroic souls “spared no pains, night nor day,” and despite the hazards to their own health, fetched wood, made fires, fed the most hungry, and dressed and undressed the indisposed, sick, and dying.In the end, of the original 102 who began the journey, only 50 were still alive come April. Nearly three out of every four women didn’t make it through.Yet, through all of the challenges and setbacks faced by the Pilgrims in the early months, they kept their resolve and optimism. It would have been easy to turn back at the first available chance, to board the next vessel back to the Old World and return to their secure lives of the familiar and constant.Yet few did. The challenges they faced were embraced, not shunned, and the Pilgrims viewed each impediment as a test to overcome. Bradford again so eloquently sums up this particular aspect of the dauntless Pilgrim spirit:All great and honorable actions are accompanied with great difficulties, and must be both enterprised and overcome with answerable courages. It was granted the dangers were great, but not desperate; the difficulties were many, but not invincible. For though there were many of them likely, yet they were not certain; it might be sundry of the things feared might never befall; others by provident care and the use of good means might in a great measure be prevented; and all of them, through the help of God, by fortitude and patience might either be borne or overcome.“They were willing to try just about anything if it meant they might survive their first year,” writes Nathaniel Philbrick in his essential “Mayflower: A Story of Courage, Community, and War.” Philbrick notes “the Pilgrims proved to be more receptive to the new ways of the New World than nearly any English settlers before or since.” This meant not just learning how to adapt and use the lands and resources of the Massachusetts wilderness, but the willingness to engage and even accept help from the non-Christian American Indians they encountered.By all reason, a betting man in 1620 would have been forgiven for expecting the Plymouth Colony to fail, if not by the end of the first deadly winter, then soon thereafter. “That it had worked out differently,” says Philbrick, “was a testament not only to the Pilgrims’s grit, resolve, and faith, but to their ability to take advantage of an extraordinary opportunity.”Given the prejudices of the time, and the haughty overconfidence of Europeans often displayed encountering non-Europeans, Plymouth’s residents would not have been out of step in dismissing all envoys from local American Indians in the region. Instead, they realized their best chance at learning how to survive lay with a policy of openness to new and innovative ideas, regardless of their source.Peace treaties made with the Wampanoag chief Massasoit and the farming techniques learned from Squanto were key components to their success. “The Pilgrims might have insisted on a policy of arrogant isolationism,” Philbrick notes, “But by becoming an active part of the diplomatic process in southern New England they had taken charge of their own destiny in the region.”The Pilgrims, however, also weren’t naïve about how quickly things could change. In February of 1622, to provide greater security for Plymouth, the Pilgrims embarked on a relatively massive building project: the edge of the colony was to be “impaled” with a wooden palisade wall.Hundreds of trees from the surrounding area with felled with primitive axes. Large timbers of 10 to 12 feet were dug into a trench three feet deep. The wall, more than 2,700 feet in length and rising eight feet above the ground, was completed in the remarkable span of a single month. Despite their distance from potential European allies, the harsh terrain, and the ever-present threat of American Indians turning hostile, the Pilgrims were here to stay.Political philosophers remain reluctant to name “pragmatism” as America’s most symbolic contribution to philosophy (or to affirm that “pragmatism” is even a “philosophy” at all). It would, however, be well to note that the beneficial, continuous, small adaptations and adjustments that mark pragmatic actions go hand-in-glove with the actions necessary for the survival and eventual flourishing of the first settlers in New England — the very actions taken by the Pilgrims.The religious beliefs of the Pilgrims played an undeniable role in the lives of the Plymouth colonists. Ultimately, however, it was their transition into rugged pioneers, and the innovation required to thrive in 17th-century New England that transformed them into an entirely new specimen: Americans.Tocqueville argued “an American taken at random must be a man ardent in his desires, enterprising, adventurous, above all an innovator,” noting that the archetypal American carries this spirit wherever he goes, both “deep in the woods” as well as “within the cities.” The fearless, restless, risk-taking aspect of the frontiersman was, for Tocqueville, quintessentially American:He fearlessly defies the Indian’s arrow and the diseases of the wilderness; the silence of the woods holds nothing that astonishes him … a stronger passion than love of life constantly spurs him on. Before him extends a continent nearly without limits, and you would say that, already afraid of having no room there, he hurries for fear of arriving too late.The description Tocqueville paints of how adventurous Americans handle the unknown was seen, quite vividly, in the expansion of the eastern New England from Plymouth in 1620 to the wider Massachusetts Bay colony by the late 1670s.Often forgotten in regaling the story of Plymouth Colony and its first inhabitants is that the progeny of the Pilgrims did not stay put for long. The initial act of deliberately breaking away from their home country and journeying thousands of miles across the open ocean awakened within the Pilgrims an appetite for freedom, one cultivated and fed by their early experiences establishing Plymouth Colony.In 1630, a small armada of 17 ships bearing more than 1,000 eager settlers to the Massachusetts Bay area brought temporary wealth to Plymouth with the buying and exchange of land and animals. From that time on, however, immigration to the wider area continued, and the population of New England increased rapidly.In the years to come, Pilgrim and Puritan colonists ventured south — planting the seeds of what would eventually become Connecticut — as well as north into territory now encompassed by the states of New Hampshire and Maine. Amidst this expansion, Plymouth’s most enterprising and wise inhabitants realized the town’s agricultural farming economy was unsustainable, and that Boston, with its exceptional harbor, held the destiny of the region.Boston’s port access was the key to transatlantic trade, and New England fish and timber quickly become the envy of many European nations. As Philbrick notes, with only 20 percent of the land suitable for farming and its shallow anchorage, those that stayed in Plymouth past 1670 despite all the available land surrounding the greater Boston area and the opportunities in Massachusetts Bay, were, in effect, choosing to doom themselves to membership of the poorest colony in all of New England.Many of Plymouth’s most famous names and closest friends of Bradford — among them, John Alden, William Brewster, Myles Standish, and Edward Winslow — saw the next great wave of opportunities beckoning, took their leave as soon as they had the chance, and founded towns to the north and west of Plymouth.It wasn’t long after the Pilgrims founded Plymouth that their love of independence flowered yet again. No second-generation resident of Plymouth Colony better represents the evolving adventurer-Pilgrim than Benjamin Church. Born in Plymouth Colony in 1639 and grandson of Mayflower passenger Richard Warren, Church was, as Philbrick notes, “one of the first New Englanders to embrace the wilderness.”During King Philip’s War, Church served as captain of the force seen by many historians to be the forerunner to the U.S. Army Rangers. From his in-depth experiences with American Indians he both fought and befriended, Church developed tactics for frontier survival that aided homesteaders for centuries. His journeys took him beyond Massachusetts into Maine, New Brunswick, and what is now Nova Scotia before he passed away in Rhode Island.Church, the next evolution of the Pilgrim, was in many ways a perfect embodiment of that word: a traveler; one from “over the lands”; a true American before there was a United States of America to speak of. As Everett S. Lee points out, “In America, we can say that migration is a part of our way of life. We are all but a few generations removed from our immigrant ancestors, whether they landed at Plymouth Rock or Ellis Island.”What started out as a set of traits exemplified by English Pilgrims, later Puritans, then men like Benjamin Church, in time became the unique template for “the American,” full stop. As Tocqueville notes:So it is the Americans who, daily abandoning the place of their birth, go to create for themselves vast domains far away. Thus the European leaves his cottage to go to inhabit the transatlantic shores, and the American, who is born on these very shores, disappears in turn into the emptiness of the central part of America. This double movement of emigration never stops: it begins in the heart of Europe, it continues across the great ocean, it keeps on across the solitude of the New World. Millions of men march at the same time toward the same point of the horizon: their language, their religion, their mores differ, their goal is shared.That goal? Freedom. The chance to live one’s life as one sees fit; unmoored, and limited only by one’s talent, fortitude, and vision for the possibilities of what can be created beyond the next vista if we have the courage.Liberalism ideologically insists it supports capitalism in a kinder, gentler way than conservatism does. It covers for entrenched exploitation with the trappings of change.To that end, it has co-opted the language and aesthetics of social justice, although only to give prevailing power structures the look of equality. So we end up with Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer donning kente cloth and societal progress presented as the first black man to run the Central Intelligence Agency.This all seems a fine goal. After all, why shouldn’t there be equal representation? The problem is that Democrats do next to nothing for working-class people of all types, meaning the party focuses on laundering the reputation of its donor class while disregarding everybody else.The members of the oppressed identities that liberals elevate tend to come from far more economically privileged backgrounds—or at least have rarefied collegiate credentials—than the vast majority of the members of the identity groups they claim to “represent.” Yet often these privileged identitarians will invoke the historical suffering of others as if it were their own.It’s a useful thing to bring up when challenged. No one wants to be seen as defending or perpetuating historical oppression, so most will back down when the privileged identitarians use it to get their way.I understand these dynamics all too well because they have been used to inflict considerable harm on me. In late 2017, I was among the 70-plus men named on The Shitty Media Men List, accused of criminal-level charges without evidence or scrutiny on a spreadsheet that was compiled by anonymous users in fewer than 24 hours.The list was publicized without investigation by The New York Times, The Washington Post, Vox, The Atlantic, BuzzFeed News, The New Yorker, and several other prominent left-of-center publications. When Joe Biden was accused of sexual assault, these very outlets stressed the importance of carefully handling accusations to justify dragging their feet on a Democrat. Then they repeatedly lied about how they handled similar stories the same way during the height of Me Too.For years, employees of these corporate outlets treated the list as a de-facto sex offender registry, proclaiming on social media that anyone even seen communicating with those named were enabling predators. No one prominent challenged this, although the vast majority of the list has still never been investigated.After more than two years of living in terror and despair, losing friends and support mechanisms, being told I shouldn’t confront the accusation because no one would believe me, I self-published my side of the story in January. I had to be scant on details about my interactions with the former coworker I think entered my name on the list, because she had not publicly accused me.Even though all those publications amplified attention to a list that is easy to find online, none acknowledged my story. They just pretended an inconvenient aspect of a controversy they covered extensively didn’t exist.In fall 2018, about a year after the list was publicly leaked, I emailed the former coworker from The Washington Post I suspect wrote my entry, as it mentioned the company having an HR file relating to my supposed misconduct. It does not.I’m not naming her because I’m not trying to drag someone into a public showdown, or to do to someone what was done to me. Given her position and status, and knowing how progressives act in these scenarios, I doubt there’s any risk for her to dispute what I say. What information I provide about her is to establish that the power imbalance favors her considerably.I want it to be clear what happened between me and this woman in case I’ve correctly identified my accuser. I can’t prove who wrote my entry, because Google won’t release that information. Then again, it’s hard not to suspect her of having something to do with it just based on her email response, which seemed callous, defensive, and unhelpful.It could have been almost anyone loosely connected to the upper reaches of prestige print and digital media. Lots of people did get access to the document in the short window of time it could be edited. My accuser could have been a man, or a nonbinary person.It could have been the result of some game of telephone in the back channels of media, a story gets exaggerated or distorted, then an individual with an ax to grind hears about it and puts somebody on a spreadsheet. It could have been a random invention that just happened to sound like it came from a woman I had a falling out with a decade before.Part of what makes this so disorienting is that all of these are legitimate possibilities and I might never know the answer. Without a court process for clearing my name, I will never know, and therefore have to rely on my hunch that this former colleague is the most likely possibility.We worked in the same small suburban bureau for about a year and a half in the mid-2000s. The first few months, we got along well. We joked around, she gave me rides to office lunches in her car, she burned a CD for me and invited me to a party at her place, which I attended for maybe an hour because a bunch of her fellow Ivy Leaguers were there and I felt out of place.Things soured between us after a few months and I’m still not entirely sure why. I did ask her to hang out outside of work, which she accepted although it never happened. The shift from good terms to bad between us seemed to me to have happened rather quickly. I couldn’t fully understand why.Given the presumption of guilt hanging over me now, this is where those inclined to disbelieve me are able to impute wrongdoing on my part, so I have to be clear about what did not occur. I never commented on her physically, never touched her, never tried to, never made lewd comments about or around her. After she changed her mind about hanging out, there was maybe a week I was dumbstruck about it, but I let the matter go.I was, however, discontent with my go-nowhere position at the paper and inability to land a decent journalism job elsewhere. Out of boredom and the need to interact with someone outside of a computer, I did sometimes float from my desk into the newsroom and talk to her, as she was the only one in the office I had rapport with at any point. This office contained six or seven people at most at any given time, so there were not a lot of options for socializing.Obviously, it wasn’t her obligation to keep me from being bored, and I regret the times I must have agitated her while she was working, but compared to what I was accused of, that’s significantly short of criminal behavior or even actionable by the company. To be clear, I wasn’t trying to talk to her constantly, but of course there’s no way to prove that more than a dozen years later. When things became more strained between us as time went on, I certainly did not bother to chat with her outside of strictly work-related matters.When we worked in the same office, I was an editorial aide and she was a reporter. I was beneath her on the totem pole.At one point, frustrated with my inability to get out of a dead-end position at the paper, I had pinned an article on the wall of my desk by a former Post employee complaining about the company’s culture of adulation and deference toward Ivy Leaguers. I admit it was a petty, passive-aggressive thing to do, and while I didn’t do it specifically to spite the two Ivy League coworkers in the office, I didn’t care that it was likely that they would see it.When they did, they confronted me. One scoffed, “Oh, you went to Maryland? Heh, heh.” I suppose he was just being petty in return, although interesting to hear an Ivy Leaguer say the quiet part loud for once. He has a pretty prestigious job now.In my email to my coworker, I apologized for being annoying and rude, and for posting that article on my desk. I also asked for clarification. What I was accused of did not line up with my experience at all.Since the list was created a decade after we worked in the same office, I was willing to consider that I had possibly forgotten something. I asked her to tell me if I did anything terrible, and had simply buried it in my memory. She sent a terse reply saying she didn’t write my entry on the list and didn’t know who did, yet chewed me out for “refuting” the charges against me, told me I had behaved inappropriately without providing any details, and told me never to contact her again.If she didn’t accept my apology, that’s her prerogative. That said, by staying silent and hidden she is tacitly allowing very serious damaging claims to stand. As far as me “refuting” anything, I think it’s only fair that I know what charges made against me are valid. In effect, she or whoever my accuser is has been allowed to be judge, jury, and executioner.Toward the end of my time with the paper I was receiving counseling through the company health plan for depression, so there were days I was emotionally uneven in the office. By that I mean cranky or dejected. I wasn’t having violent outbursts.Being around someone who makes you uncomfortable isn’t the same thing as them threatening you. At the time I had begun living alone for the first time, my commute was an hour each way to a job I was disenchanted with, several close friends had recently left the area, and I wasn’t taking it as well as I was telling myself.It strikes me as ridiculous that I have to unpack all this context about my life to defend myself from a spreadsheet entry that probably took about 30 seconds to throw together.My former coworker is not some vulnerable nobody. She is now an editor at a corporate outlet in New York, who wields far more institutional power and influence than I have at any point in my career. Yet either she (or someone else, but with her consent) has been allowed to hide in anonymity while issuing ruinous charges against me.Because corporate journos, especially in New York media circles, often communicate as groups on private online forums, it’s entirely possible she told others through back channels not to acknowledge my story. It’s also possible they decided that on their own. Such is the strength of ideological conformity in those spaces.Of course, the popular narrative of Me Too, eagerly pushed by liberal outlets, is of vulnerable women taking down powerful men. My story is very much the opposite of that. But no one dares challenge the accepted talking points because to them the list is simply just a way to start making up for all the crimes of the past. Once again, identitarians are using historical oppression to justify present cruelty.Moira Donegan, the woman who started the spreadsheet, landed a new job as a columnist at The Guardian and got a book deal. She is being sued by another man named on the list, the only one besides me who has publicly confronted his allegation. She is being represented pro bono by Times Up and received $100,000 on GoFundMe for her “legal defense.” That doesn’t sound to me like someone who is oppressed.When I published my article in January, Donegan immediately blocked me on Twitter and never acknowledged what I wrote. No one has pressured her to do so. She’s hailed in corporate media outlets as a hero. She also helped bury the Tara Reade story this past spring by shaming people who justifiably criticized the corporate media and the professional activist class for their transparent double standard on Biden.Shortly after I self-published my story, the popular New York City-based podcast Red Scare hosts railed against me on an episode. The two women had earned the ire of corporate feminists during the height of Me Too for almost always defending or sympathizing with men accused of sexual misconduct, including, to a degree, Harvey Weinstein. They described him as a fall guy for more widespread predation among the elites.Yet they were disgusted with my self-defense. To them, I had been too kind to the media class and Donegan, tried too hard to explain how I’m worthy as a person when it didn’t matter.In retrospect, they were right. I played nice, and got ignored. I thought the better angels of journalism still exist, that certain principles matter. One of the hosts called me a “beta cuck,” which I’m including here because I think it’s funny, although it did sting at the time.I learned the hard way: Never apologize. Not to these people, at least.